The judge at the time ordered he be brought before the court again after 10 years to evaluate his situation. This was done in 2013 when a panel of psychiatrists and psychologist recommended he was not yet ready to face the outside world. In terms of the law, Meintjies subsequently had to be brought back to court every five years to be evaluated. He thus found himself back in the Gauteng High Court, Pretoria, yesterday, to pronounce on his fate. Meintjies is held at the Leeuwkop Prison in Joburg north, but he will later this month be moved to the Kgosi Mampuru II where he will be evaluated by Weskoppies Hospital psychologists. Meintjies, now in his early 50s, made headlines 15 years ago when a panel of experts recommend that he not roam the streets again for a very long time. It was said at the time that he suffered from a borderline personality disorder and was a paedophile. Weskoppies at the time painted a bleak picture of his prognoses. He was convicted on 13 charges relating to the sexual molestation of young boys. He was also fond of taking pornographic pictures of the children. Many of these, including pictures of him in bizarre poses, were found in his home. Judge Ronnie Bosielo in August 2003 said it was clear from the evidence that he suffered from a deep-seated propensity to molest young children, exposing them to pornographic material and taking pictures of them while naked or in sexual acts. He said Meintjies admitted under oath that he had a serious, if not irresistible, obsession for young children (especially boys) and that he was a danger to children. The judge at the time said Meintjies could never be cured of his sexual obsession and that even the experts had said so. Judge Bosielo at the time commented about his outbursts in court. "Twice he appeared in this court, in full view of the public, half naked, dressed in a jacket and jockey only. Something is seriously wrong with him." Meintjies, who sported long, unkempt hair at the time, also often arrived at court in striped prison pyjamas. All hell broke loose during his sentencing when he grabbed a syringe hidden under his clothes. As he was about to jab himself, an orderly pounced on him. As soon as his sentencing was concluded, Meintjies hurled hefty law books across the court in a fit of rage. But the man in the dock yesterday, appeared to be different. He sported a shaved head and was neatly dressed in his prison clothes. The court was told he is studying in jail and in the middle of writing exams.