Emeka was arrested last week and applied for bail in the Bronkhorstspruit Magistrate’s Court on Friday. It was denied. He had been arrested after women belonging to his church pressed charges of sexual assault and rape against him. The church is located along the R513 route at Ekandustria. The alleged victims claimed that Emeka would propose that he prayed for them in private whenever they had problems. The pastor would then spray what he described as the holy oil on them, including their private parts. “Before he sprayed them, he would ask them to take off their clothes,” EFF branch chairperson Sizwe Skhosana said. In the middle of the “prayer”, Emeka would allegedly force himself on the women and demand sex. Thembi Ntuli, who used to work closely with Emeka, said: “I was shocked to hear about it because I know him as a good man of God. He taught me how to pray and worship.” She said she left the church in May after she received a calling from God to start her own ministry. There was high drama at the church yesterday, which culminated in EFF members burning a pamphlet with an image of the pastor. The “Fighters” were joined by a group of local pastors, who also condemned alleged sexual attacks on women. They prevented some congregants from accessing the church, saying it was “a house of rape”. The group forced a member of the congregation to remove musical instruments inside a house built behind the church. Police were called in to make sure the property was not damaged. However, they were unable to stop protesters from removing plastic chairs from the church. Skhosana said a group of women approached them last week and claimed they had been repeatedly raped by the pastor. “Two women were brave enough to report the pastor. On Wednesday, we laid charges of rape and sexual harassment,” he said. More women had since taken steps to report their sexual ordeals, allegedly at the hands of the pastor. “We have at least eight women who have approached us on the same matter,” he said. Police spokesperson Captain Sipho Zulu said two criminal cases of rape and sexual assaults were last week reported at the Bronkhorstspruit police station. He said the cases were in connection with allegations levelled against the pastor. “The alleged perpetrator will appear before the Bronkhorstspruit Magistrate’s Court on Thursday,” he said. Zulu said the pastor was arrested after criminal cases were opened. He didn’t have details of those who actually opened cases or the ages of alleged victims. “Everything else will unfold when he appear in court,” he said. Another pastor in the area who identified himself only as Bishop Paledi said he wanted the City to revoke the title deed of the plot. “We are going to the municipality because we want the City to close down the church,” he said.