This was the verdict of the Supreme Court of Appeal in dismissing an appeal by the parents. Pridwin Preparatory School had terminated the contract it had concluded with the parents, only identified as AB and CB, to protect the identities of their sons, aged 7 and 11. The parents turned to the high court to have the termination overturned, arguing the school had no right to do this. But the court found the school acted within reason as it first gave the parents a warning regarding their conduct. When the parents found no joy with the high court, they turned to the Supreme Court as well as the Constitutional Court. The ConCourt simply turned down their application, while four judges of the Supreme Court this week vindicated the school. The two children were in effect being expelled as a result of the conduct of their parents, a chartered accountant and his psychologist wife. The high court last year ordered that the children could conclude the year at the school. It is not clear whether they were still there awaiting this judgment. While the parents mostly argued their case in law and remained mum about their conduct, Justice Azar Cachalia, who wrote the judgment, remarked that it was no doubt because of their “sorry tale of misconduct” over a long period of time. The school’s principal, Selwyn Max, said the first event occurred in October 2015, during the Under-9 tennis trials. AB (the father) rudely accused a young intern in charge of the tennis of incompetence and damaging the children’s enthusiasm for tennis. This left her in tears and traumatised. Max said this conduct formed part of AB’s persistent harassment of Pridwin staff. AB had an obsession with match statistics and loudly voiced his dissatisfaction about team selection for the Under-9 cricket team, of which his 8-year-old son was a member. He offered his services as a coach, because the school coaching was “useless”. When the coach took him on, the wife, identified as CB, said she wasn’t sure if the coach had a low IQ or acted out of malice, for taking on a man of her husband’s calibre. Subsequent to this, the father watched another cricket match his son played in. The child was given out and the father shouted abuse at the umpire. He threatened the umpire with a cricket bat in his hand, saying “you fat(words the Supreme Court refused to repeat)". When confronted about his behaviour, the father said he would speak to umpires as he wanted because they were “not gods”. He said where he came from umpires would be “stabbed with a stump from the wicket” for making a bad decision. The following year, during an Under-10 match, the dad against shouted abuse from the sidelines at the umpire. The school then threatened to expel the boys if the father did not behave himself. This had no effect on the dad’s behaviour because he persevered with it and gave the soccer coach “unwelcome advice”. The school eventually terminated its contracts with the parents, prompting them to go to the high court.