The Ramokokastad villagers want the president to intervene and end what they call the misuse of community funds meant for the Baphalane tribe. They want Ramaphosa to remove Chief Joy Ramokoka and his administration and appoint a neutral administration and an interim administration to lead the tribe. At least 300 community members travelled to Pretoria in buses on October 24, but have since sent most of the elderly, employed and young people back home. Community leader Charles Makinta said: “We are now left with at least 150 community members who are camping here until the president speaks to us. We delivered a memorandum early this year and now we want assurances. We are not leaving here until they assure us of a new administrator. “Our community is very poor and people are not working. The mines give the community development trust millions, but we don’t see that money benefiting the people. It benefits the royals, their friends and those with political connections.” The people said they also wanted the government to oversee a process regarding the three royal families in their community to determine the rightful chief. They said their community had been rocked by numerous protests since the beginning of this year due to various community grievances. They also wanted the government to suspend the Batlase Development Trust until their concerns had been addressed. “Money is not properly spent or invested to benefit our community. However, in the media our leaders are making excuses. We need adequate clinics and other services from all the millions given to our community by the mines operating on our land,” Kgopolang Morake added. They said some members of the community had disrupted community meetings where financial reports would be distributed, and this, they said, was done even after North West Premier Job Mokgoro announced that the community’s allegations would be investigated. Presidential spokesperson Khusela Diko said the Presidency was not aware the group was camping at the Unions Buildings, because they had not made a formal application for someone to received their memorandum. She said there was a constant flow of people and that made it difficult to know what people were doing there.