This week, the Pretoria News attempted to obtain an update from both the SAPS and the Department of Labour, but this proved to be easier said than done. While affected families want the deadly light to be removed, Executive Mayor Solly Msimanga has said the City of Tshwane’s hands were tied because it remained a crime scene. He said the high-mast could only be removed once the two external investigations had been completed. Last Friday, Msimanga undertook to write to the two institutions asking them to fast-track the investigation. While the SAPS confirmed that it had completed its investigation, the findings remain under wraps. There was still no word from the Department of Labour on how far its probe had progressed. SAPS spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Lungelo Dlamini said the cases had been transferred to the inquest court. “Unfortunately, we cannot give a directive to the City to remove a light, but we know that the inquest court will start procedures to establish whether the incident was an accident or a criminal act. From there an announcement could then be made on what happens to the light,” he said. The Pretoria News made several attempts via telephone and email to get clarification on the status of the investigation from the Department of Labour - without success. MMC for Utility Services Darryl Moss reiterated Msimanga’s stance that the City could unfortunately not remove the high-mast light because the tragedy was considered both an accident and crime scene. He said the City would, without a doubt, “love to urgently remove” the light to save the entire Block X community and beyond from memories of what the light now represented. “To my understanding, the Department of Labour considered the incident an industrial accident and thus it needed to compile a report. Until such time that we receive the reports clearly stating that the area is no longer an accident or crime scene, our hands are tied.” However, Moss said the City might not have to wait for the outcome of a possible lengthy inquest court probe to remove the light. He said reports from the two investigating departments could suffice, as long as they enabled the City to clear the area. Last weekend, the community of Soshanguve joined in remembering the tragedy and expressed unhappiness about what they termed a sluggish investigation. Gauteng Premier David Makhura said he was disappointed the investigation had not yet been completed. He said the families would not heal until they got answers as to what caused the deaths of their children. Makhura also took a swipe at Msimanga, saying the tragedy was not taken seriously by the DA-led administration because it took place in a township and not in the suburbs.