DURBAN – Mogli.Mobi is set to launch South Africa’s first fully integrated, mobile wallet solution for the entertainment, food & beverage and nightlife industry. Mogli.Mobi is a subsidiary brand under African urban culture and lifestyle company Memetics501 "The idea behind creating this app was to provide an all-in-one solution on a single platform, in the palm of your hand for entertainment consumers, venue owners, promoters and vendors," said Avukile Mabombo, owner at Memetics501. For the public, the app is their one-stop-shop for all of their entertainment needs, with event attendees even being able to make their food and beverage purchases before the event. The app also has a loyalty rewards programme where users earn points on purchases that they made and their redeem the points for access to exclusive events or other purchases on the platform. Suppliers, event promoters and vendors will can operate their services from one platform and monitor every aspect of the event live from ticket to bar sales in real time through a fully integrated dashboard. Vendors can manage table sales with never seen before ease because the app’s user-friendly admin panel and app logins enable them to run ticket sales, table bookings and allocations, door verification and bottle sales during an event all on the same platform. The dedicated venue and event pages also allow vendors to expose their offering to a captive audience ‒ be it by promoting events or specific food and beverage offerings. Vendors can now identify VIPs based on a customer’s interaction with venues and events. The vendors are also able to tap into the Mogli loyalty system by incentivising patrons on various promotions as well as rewarding them for engagement. According to Mogli.Mobi, the target market for the app are premium clubs, bars, restaurants, event promoters, food and beverage brands and their respective consumers. Nazeer and Yazeed Osman from the USFL (Useable Solutions for Life Team) of Developers built the app. Mogli.Mobi is a free app and people only pay commission based on the sales that are made through the app. The Mogli.Mobi app is available on they Google Play Store and iOS Apple Store from the 15th of November 2018. Follow the Business Report on Instagram here BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE