Tshwane mayor Solly Msimanga's spokesperson Samkelo Mgobozi could find himself in hot water after he was asked by City Manager Dr Moeketsi Mosola to cite reasons why he should not be fired over an irregular appointment. Mgobozi, who confirmed receipt of the letter dated November 19 2018 from Mosola, was appointed two years ago to the position of executive head of mayoral public affairs and media relations. In the letter, which the Pretoria News has seen, Mosola requested Mgobozi to furnish him with reasons why he should not be axed from his position within 10 working days. "The reasons must be submitted to Ninette Botha, after which I will apply my mind to the reasons and make a determination regarding a way forward," he said. Mgobozi said he would comply with the request by replying within the timeframe. The appointment first hogged headlines in August after Mosola released a forensic report, which revealed that Mgobozi didn't meet minimum requirements for the post. The report also implicated former executive head in the private office of the executive mayor, Stefan Adriaan de Villiers, also known as the bodybuilder. De Villiers was found not to meet the academic minimum requirements of possessing a Bachelor’s degree or equivalent. Msimanga slammed the report, saying it deviated from the intention to conduct city-wide audits of all qualifications of top level city managers. The report found Mgobozi lacked at least twelve years experience, which was part of the requirements for the position. Five years of the 12-years experience was required to be in the senior managerial position, according to the report. The senior appointment audit report showed that Mgobozi only had two years experience at the time of appointment. "A candidate will be considered suitably qualified for appointment based on one or a combination of different aspects including formal qualifications and recognition of prior learning," wrote Mosola. He further said that in terms of the staffing policy "the appointment requirements can only be waived in accordance with agreed criteria, and or when allowed by national legislation and the waiver is subject to approval by the city manager and his or her nominee". Mosola said there was no evidence found that "the city manager approved a waiver of the minimum requirements of experience for the position". The appointments of senior officials in the city was also a subject of an ongoing investigation by the Public Protector, Busisiwe Mkhwebane. Mkhwebane recently said the probe into alleged irregular appointments of senior officials in the city was at an advanced stage. The investigation related to the appointments of the chief of staff and the mayoral spokesperson, city officials and the appointment of the city manager.