MMC for Roads and Transport Sheila Lynn Senkubuge says metro police in Tshwane might have to escort A Re Yeng buses in Mamelodi following threats to burn them, which has led to services being withdrawn. Thousands of commuters were this morning forced to use alternative transport as services are halted due to threats to burn buses, by angry residents over issues of overloading. Senkubuge was addressing the media in Hatfield earlier to give an update on the operations. Whether or not buses will be operating tomorrow would be discussed in a meeting between the City and Tshwane Rapid Transit (TRT). “The community has said unless more buses come on the route they are going to continue being overloaded and if the buses continue being overloaded they will burn them. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video  "So taking these threats seriously TRT has been left with no option but to withdraw the services today and watch the situation.” “As the City we have stepped in and the intention is to ensure that we are able to assist TRT in bringing the services back perhaps with the escort of metro police,” she said. Senkubuge said the overcrowding was a result of the A Re Yeng Bus Service taking over Autopax after they pulled out last year. “You may remember that last year Autopax pulled out of the route in Mamelodi, the reason being they felt the route was no longer profitable and that they had experienced a number of loses. “When that situation arose we needed an emergency solution to ensure that we can continue providing services to the people of Mamelodi and TRT was kind enough to step in. They said that they would take over that contract for period of six months while province advertise the tender,”she said. Unfortunately the province was not able to find a new service provider in time so that tender was extended, she said. “TRT is still continuing on that particular route. Initially Autopax was running about 30 buses on that particular route when TRT stepped in they put in 30 buses and then we increased them to 45,” she added. Senkubuge said TRT would need a permanent contract in place before they are able to procure more buses than are currently on the route.