Last month, a devastating fire raced through two informal settlements east of the city. The first fire, at Plastic View, destroyed 50 shacks and left 500 people displaced. One person died in the fire, believed to have been caused by a paraffin stove. Two days later, a second fire broke out at Woodlands informal settlement, known as Plastic View 2 or Cemetery View. Another person died and 340 were left homeless. At least 223 of the 1000 shacks were razed to the ground. At the weekend, 139 shacks were razed by another fire at Cemetery View. The fire broke out in the early hours of Sunday and left 320 people homeless. It was believed to have been the result of a domestic violence incident. After the first fires, executive mayor Solly Msimanga said the City had appointed a service provider to establish a mixed residential township to be known as Pretorius Park Extension 40 for residents of these settlements. The land was east of the nearby Woodlands Shopping Centre, he said. “The development site has been identified as a resettlement area to accommodate the beneficiaries from Plastic View,” he noted at the time. However, the Tshwane Homelessness Forum, which had been working with other stakeholders to find solutions for the informal settlements, said there had been no communication from the City since the fires. Chairperson Stephan de Beer acknowledged that there was a meeting scheduled for this week. “There is a new development by the City in the planning, but very few of the informal settlement residents will be able to afford it. There is another near the mall, but there is no conversation with the community. Our sense is that less than 10% of Plastic View’s people will benefit from it.” However, City spokesperson Lindela Mashigo denied there had been no communication. He said they had been engaging with Plastic View residents and all other neighbouring communities that would be affected. “The development is intended to yield mixed housing typologies such as full subsidy, a finance-linked individual subsidy programme and rental stock. “The development site has been identified as a resettlement area to accommodate the beneficiaries from Plastic View informal settlement. The development contributes much to the objective of the City to dismantle apartheid spatial patterns.” De Beer called for the prioritisation of the land on which the informal settlements were located. He said failure to “pro-actively prioritise” the area would see the 70 hectares of land owned by the City improperly occupied. “This community has been here for 15 years and the court order ruled that they should stay. Everyone should start seeing them as the part of the community. “Before the court order, the people lived all over the bushes, but the Supreme Court ruled that they be brought together, hence there is a fence around the informal settlement.” He said the fence was put up to ensure the people were safe and secure. “It is unfortunate that the fence is broken and there is no more security for the people. But we hope that the City will go back to the details of the court order and secure the place, because people are very vulnerable at the moment.” De Beer said with proper prioritisation, the security could be sorted out, and there could be a stronger partnership and accountability with the Garsfontein police station.