The metro yesterday made it public that some parts of the capital had not been heeding the call to save water. In this regard, Rand Water has hit the City with its second notification in weeks to restrict meters. The areas will be restricted by 20% to 25%. The areas include Ga-Rankuwa Industrial sites, Mabopane, Ga-Rankuwa, Akasia Park, Kruisfontein, Brakfontein, Thaba Tshwane, Blair Athol, Pretoria West, Sunnyside, Arcadia, Meintjieskop, the city centre, Wonderboom, Saulsville and Erasmia. Before setting restrictions, the City pleaded with residents and businesses communities to be serious about conserving water. The restrictions are applicable throughout the metro. The curbs will ensure the control of water and water supply to all residents. City spokesperson Lindela Mashigo said residents and businesses within the community were again encouraged to be serious about conserving water to avoid a total collapse of their bulk supply. If this appeal was heeded, water-related interruptions would be minimised, he said. “The water conservation measures implemented during the initial restrictions should become the norm. “Residents, please remain vigilant to wastage of this scarce resource and make saving water part of your lifestyle by making every drop count and following water-saving tips.” The Department of Water and Sanitation said that despite the present heatwave, Gauteng dams were still almost full and levels were averaging 97%. The water situation in the province has improved by 12.5% compared to the same period last year. But as the heatwave continues, it was affecting dam levels in most parts of the country, reducing levels at an alarming rate. There are fears that unless it starts raining heavily, the country may end up with half the water resources it currently has. The country’s dam levels dropped by 0.8% to an average of 70.5% this week, the department said. As the mercury continued to rise, the department repeated calls to residents to stay indoors during the day and consume enough water to hydrate their bodies.