This was the picture painted by a leaked preliminary report purported to be part of the Auditor-General’s ongoing probe into the tender. The report made negative findings against the municipality and city manager Dr Moeketsi Mosola. The report with information on the tender to roll out infrastructure projects valued at R12billion has been circulating on social media this week. The damning report suggested Mosola, who acted on behalf of the City, didn’t comply with the Municipal Supply Chain Management regulation. It also noted that the municipality failed to demonstrate how it would derive benefits from the GladAfrica contract as required by the regulation. “It was noted that the City only considered the cost aspect in relation to the procurement process,” the report said. It noted that financial analysis in respect of potential cost savings was not done. “As a result, the City did not demonstrate cost savings or benefits in respect of paragraph 32 of the Municipal Supply Chain Management regulations in terms of financial aspects relating to pricing and/or comparable rates or other cost savings or benefits.” The report further said the City procured services beyond the scope and terms and conditions of the original contract between GladAfrica and the Development Bank of Southern Africa. The City’s procurement process, using Regulation 32, was modelled on the approach adopted by the Development Bank of Southern Africa, from where it obtained names of 26 companies to compete for the contract. Seven companies were shortlisted and GladAfrica was chosen as a successful bidder. The report, however, found that “the material terms and conditions of the contract that the City concluded with GladAfrica differed to that of Development Bank of Southern Africa”. The City’s deal with GladAfrica “cannot be said to constitute a procurement under the same contract or under its terms and conditions”, said the report. The report was without a letterhead and signature, but indicated it was authorised by the provincial manager in the office of the Auditor-General, General Moruri. Auditor-General spokesperson Africa Boso said they would comment in due course. Mosola said: “It is not in the character of the City to conduct its internal audit investigations in the media... Only after the process is concluded will the City release a formal statement.” In the draft report, Mosola was asked to respond to the negative findings made in terms of Regulation 32. The report further raised concerns that the contract between the City and GladAfrica came into effect on November 20, 2017, five days before the end of the service provider’s deal with the Development Bank of Southern Africa. The City also failed to ensure that GladAfrica’s rates were “exactly the same as the rates agreed to between the service provider and the other organ of state as per the original contract”.