The research results were released by the Gauteng City-Region Observatory last week. Part of the research explored residents’ level of satisfaction with services they received from municipalities. The research found that many residents in the City were disgruntled with basic services and noted that access to all basic services had dropped. Gauteng City-Region Observatory research director Graeme Goltz said: “Satisfaction is steadily increasing in Ekurhuleni and Midvaal, while decreasing in Joburg and Tshwane. This does not mean satisfaction in these two metros is down across the board.” Msimanga said: “It is quite interesting because if you were to compare it with the 2015/16 survey, there is an improvement of about 2%.” However, he said the City concurred that its services had “to a certain degree taken a little bit of a knock”. “We are trying to address that. I know what the problem is. I am dealing with the problem to get procurement going as it is supposed to be going,” he said. On Friday, Msimanga headed a meeting with his management to look at issues raised in the report. “We are meeting with the management to address some of the challenges that have been niggling for quite a while.” He said the City was not going to ignore the survey because it spoke about service delivery. “It says that a lot still needs to be improved,” he said. Some of the challenges faced by the City were about when tenders needed to be signed by officials, he said. “Unfortunately, these are some of the things that I can’t personally get involved in or any of my MMCs, but yet at the same time we need to make sure that these things need to be done,” he said. He said there were, however, mechanisms that could be used “to make sure that people get to do what needs to be done”. Researchers said they had only done very preliminary analysis for specific areas, and have not yet conducted any significant testing. “However, our data indicates that for Eersterust, 45% of respondents list drugs/alcohol abuse as the most serious challenge in their community - compared to 15% for the metro as a whole (and 16% for Gauteng). This suggests that this is a particularly challenging issue for this area,” they said. The survey is conducted every two years to provide a regular understanding of the socio-economic circumstances in municipalities. It also explores levels of satisfaction with services and government, value-base, socio-political perspectives and other characteristics of residents in the province.