Scandal drama series villain, Mthunzi Mayiza - built on a fake identity, lies, deception and cheating, has evoked love and hatred on social media. The role is portrayed by South African Film and Television Awards winner Bongile Mantsai and is driven by revenge - and it has been stirring up viewers’ emotions since his debut months back. Mthunzi is charismatic and charming, but also a chameleon who quickly changes colours depending on what he needs from people. The 33-year-old is best known for his role in the controversial South African film "Inxeba", and since his debut on Scandal viewers have admitted that the series had amassed a massive following as they took to social media to discuss it everyday. In the series, aired weekdays at 7.30pm, he is the son of domestic worker Dambisa Maduna, who works for the rich Langa family, but none of the family members know it. He comes with a hatred for the family after he once, as a child, visited his mother at work and had a bad experience. This left him feeling unwanted and disrespected and he grew up to resent them, also believing that he never had a chance to have a mother because of them. So as part of his plan to get back at them Mthunzi kidnapped and killed businessman Siseko Langa - played by Hlomla Dandala, out of revenge and to get at the millions he owned. He faked his way into running the law firm and businesses, which Langa had put his son Chumani (Ayanda Daweti) in charge of. Soon after he arrived he had the Langas eating out of his hand, becoming the chief executive but leaving Chumani in doubt about him, with his efforts to get rid of him being thwarted by his mother and sister Xolile (Sivenathi Mabuya) who think he is a godsend. Not only has he taken charge of the firm but he managed to manipulate his way through Xolile’s heart, and they will be getting married soon, something viewers are looking forward to. People have expressed mixed emotions about the character, with many saying they were impressed with him, but saying it was time for him to get caught.   