But she’s certain that whatever knowledge she gains will change not just her life but others on her return home in 2020. The 18-year-old is headed for a town called Mosberg as part of the Rotary Youth Exchange Long-Term Programme, where she will stay for 12 months while studying. She’ll rotate between three families in the same area, and costs for the trip are fully sponsored by the Pretoria Sunrise Rotary Club, which she is part of. The Lesedi Secondary School “straight A” pupil who wrote her last matric exam today, hopes to come back a changed person and with more ambition. The Pretoria News caught up with Pilane at the weekend where she had attended a Rotary meeting, addressed by Pretoria News Editor Val Boje, ahead of her life-changing journey. “This is an opportunity of a lifetime. I’m blessed and I would like to thank Rotary for this opportunity. At my school I’m the first pupil to ever go and study abroad so this indeed is worth celebrating. I’m definitely looking forward to learning a new language (German) and to come back as a changed person and with the renewed motive of helping others find themselves where I am today.” Those afforded the Rotary youth exchanges are encouraged to research their host country as much as possible prior to the trip. Pilane, too, has been hard at work. “According to what I know, Germany is very strict but I’m not thinking anything negative, only positive things. “I’m going there to learn as much as I can and make sure that I come back and help others. I would like to encourage people my age never to give up because I’ve always wanted to travel, but I didn’t know who would help because I come from a very poor background.” She said she was grateful to the club members for covering the costs as her family couldn’t. Pilane would like to study BCom Accounting on her return. According to the club’s Barry Puttergill, Pilane is an outstanding pupil and they believe sponsoring her is worthwhile. “We are in the process of sorting out the visa. Depending on approval she will possibly leave for Germany in the middle of January. Our club is sponsoring the costs which are quite significant,” Puttergill said. Pilane has had to go through a rigorous process including being interviewed to see if she was a suitable candidate for the programme. It is meant for self-motivated, smart students; and Pilane is exactly that.