This was the opening line of a judgment delivered by Gauteng High Court, Pretoria, Judge Nomsa Khumalo in a R1.5million damages claim by a justice official against his employer. Sekitle Mashedi was claiming the money for defamation, tarnished dignity and reputation, as well as for the trauma he suffered when he was arrested at work on May 18, 2012. He said the Minister of Justice should compensate him as department officials implicated him in fraud and subsequently alerted police. At the time Mashedi worked in the department's division responsible for ordering stationery. It was claimed that he had fraudulently ordered 14 iPads valued at R138000 using the department’s letterhead. From the start Mashedi denied any knowledge of the order, but his colleagues said he acted suspiciously and that all fingers pointed at him. He was never charged and a letter of suspension by the department was subsequently withdrawn. But Mashedi said he was humiliated in front of his colleagues and they still viewed him with suspicion. His problems started on May 18, 2012, when a supplier of the devices arrived at the department to deliver the order. The receptionist said the supplier showed her the order form, but she couldn't see who'd ordered the devices as no name was given. The assistant director who managed the division was called. She immediately identified the order as fraudulent. The supplier replied that she had just spoken to the person (over the phone) who had ordered it, who said he was there. An official phoned the number given to the supplier and Mashedi answered the phone without uttering a word. The court was also told that some officials saw Mashedi in the foyer walking very slowly around the reception area before he went back to his office. This caused officials to become suspicious and police were called. Mashedi testified that he had worked at the department from 2004. He said he was arrested around lunchtime that day in front of his colleagues. He was told he had ordered iPads through the department. His computer, phone and office printer were confiscated. He was taken to the Pretoria Central police station, where he told police he knew nothing about the order. He was told by police to go home until they contacted him again. Mashedi said he never heard from the policeagain. However, he did receive a suspension letter from work which was later withdrawn. Judge Khumalo said a person is innocent until found guilty. But in this case the suspicion was justified given the fact that Mashedi answered the call; was around reception and was seen at one stage leaving his office carrying a tog bag. Give the scale of corruption in the public sector, conduct raising suspicion would be acted upon. She turned down his claim.