Miss Universe Demi-Leigh Nel-Peters is set to crown her successor in Thailand this December, and Mzansi will be hoping it will be Miss SA winner Tamaryn Green. A back to back title handover is not unheard of. In 2009 Stefanía Fernández of Venezuela was crowned by Dayana Mendoza of Venezuela as her successor at the end of the event. Green revealed two of her pageant outfits today – including her breath-taking official national costume which pays homage to the Blue Crane – as she prepares to compete in the Miss Universe competition.   Miss Universe 2018 takes place on December 17, in Bangkok in Thailand and South Africans are hoping for a consecutive win as reigning Miss Universe Demi-Leigh Nel-Peters of South Africa will crown her successor at the end of the event. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video Green, 24, from Paarl in the Western Cape, was crowned Miss South Africa 2018 in May this year. At the time of winning the title, she was a sixth and final year medical student at the University of Cape Town with her sights set on specialising in paediatrics once she qualifies.   Green’s national costume, which she revealed at her farewell, was designed by Malikah Hajee and Lloyd Kandlin and their team at The Costume Department, while Galluzzi e Gini has designed a number of her outfits including the farewell gown.   Hajee explains that The Costume Department took inspiration for the show-stopping national costume from South Africa’s national bird, the blue crane: “More than 1000 bluish grey and black feathers have been hand placed on the costume and resemble under wing feathers. The headpiece is encrusted with crystals depicting the beak. The custom feather print fabric is designed locally. The structured, tailored jacket is reflective of the esteem that blue crane feathers are held in within some African cultures such as Xhosa, Zulu and Ndebele. Chiefs were bestowed with the honour of wearing blue crane feathers for their acts of bravery and hunting prowess.”   Galluzzi e Gini has designed Green’s farewell dress, her preliminary dress as well as the finale dress for Miss Universe. Green also revealed The National Gift to The Universe necklace designed by her in collaboration with Jack Friedman Jewellers which pays tribute to her hometown Cape Town. The Miss Universe Pageant will be screened live from Bangkok on DStv on Monday, December 17, at 2am SA time