Pretoria - The National Educational, Health and Allied Workers (Nehawu) is calling for the death penalty to be brought back to show that crimes against women will no longer be tolerated within South African communities. The trade union sent out a clear message as they protested outside the Pretoria Magistrate’s Court ahead of the appearance of a 34-year-old Mamelodi man accused of murdering a 28-year-old woman. The man allegedly murdered the victim and dumped her body in the chimney inside the Department of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries offices in Pretoria in December 2017. According to information the woman was reported missing on December 22, a day after she was last seen during her tea break. She was employed by a private company rendering cleaning services to the department. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video Her badly decomposed body was discovered by a security guard during the department’s Christmas break on December 28. Sunnyside SAPS spokesperson, Captain David Mavimbela, said the investigating officer, conducted a “meticulous investigation” which led to the arrest of the man in Mamelodi on Friday. “The Sunnyside police management commends the investigating officer for his outstanding professionalism in dealing with the investigation that followed.” Lindiwe Sibeko, a Nehawu shop steward, said they were happy that progress was realised especially ahead of activities that will be part of 16-days of activism against women abuse. Sibeko said workers still did not feel safe and people were afraid to work after hours. “We want to see this person and know that he is going to pay for his crimes. But we wish that the death penalty can be brought back especially when the evidence is as compelling.” “The family is crying and her children are without a mother who was the sole parent left and yet this man will continue living in prison with our tax funds which is not right.” The man appeared briefly in court with the matter being postponed to November 26 , for further investigation. Pretoria News