Newsroom editors scratched their heads. State Department officials scrambled. The South African government, which had spent months gingerly navigating the Trump presidency, swiftly hit back. Officials called the tweet “unfortunate” and “divisive” and hauled in the US Embassy’s Chargé d’Affaires for a dressing down. But why, after barely touching on African issues during his administration, had the American president chosen to focus on a domestic debate in South Africa? And, more importantly, how had the fate of a few thousand white South African farmers become a regular feature on Trump’s favoured Fox News? The “genocide” online South Africa has become a twisted meme for the far right online. It is a favourite for extreme right wingers like Katie Hopkins, a British provocateur, and Laura Southern, a Canadian alternative media personality, who have developed a substantial following. There is no shortage of extreme voices on South Africa. Posts about white genocide and land grabs are everywhere on Facebook or YouTube. Spend a little time, though, in this alternative media universe, and the name of one South African keeps cropping up: Simon Roche. Roche is ubiquitous, doing interviews with conspiracy theorist Alex Jones and ultra-right media like Red Ice, or appealing directly to his followers on social media from an overstuffed leather couch. He is the public face and a leader of the Suidlanders (Southerners or South Landers). The Suidlanders believe South Africa is heading towards a brutal race war where whites will be targeted by blacks. Its members come from across the country, and from a cross-section of society. They are farmers, business people and suburbanites, organised into more than 30 districts across the country. What unites them is their race - they are exclusively white - and their genuine belief in their founder’s doomsday prophecy. They are planning for the evacuation of members to rural South African refugee camps they will set up. There is a key distinction between the Suidlanders and South Africa’s ­khaki-clad hate groups of the past like the AWB (Afrikaner Weerstandsbeweging or Afrikaner Resistance Movement) or Boeremag, which focused on aggressive nationalism. The Suidlanders cast themselves as victims and they push that myth far beyond South Africa’s shores. “The online strategy and propaganda of the Suidlanders uses the same tactics as terrorist groups for recruiting members,” says an official of a South African intelligence agency who is not authorised to talk publicly. The Suidlanders claim their membership is now more than 130000. That figure is most likely inflated, says our source, but is impossible to verify since they do not keep membership lists. The government is concerned enough, though, to have undercover agents embedded in the group, according to the source. Ultra-right-wing groups have always had some appeal to fringe elements in South Africa. The land debate has given oxygen to the myth of white victimisation like never before. With the Suidlanders Down a dirt road, and through the cracked fields of maize husks, a perfect circle of imposing green eucalyptus trees rises over the parched early summer farmland. The ring of trees is the exact dimension of the circle of wagons during the Battle of Blood River on December16, 1838, where a few hundred Afrikaners defeated thousands of Zulu warriors without losing a single life. Inside sport utility vehicles and bakkies and camper vans, families set up their tents and gather in small groups chatting, shielded from the outside world by the trees. The Suidlanders’ newest district organisation is on a camping weekend - and they agreed to let us come. The weekend ends with a raffle where winning numbers are chosen with a bit of target practice. A whistle sounds and about 50 men, women and children filter into a corrugated iron hall. On the stage are flipcharts with handwritten lists in Afrikaans. “Suidlanders - Ezekiel 20:45,” one is headed. “The word of the Lord came to me: ‘Son of man, set your face toward the south,’” the biblical prophecy reads. “I am about to set fire to you, and it will consume all your trees both green and dry.” Jan Fourie, a ramrod-straight man with a black beard arching along his jawline, stands in front of the group holding a dog-eared family bible. “You can see how the revolutionary climate is growing in our land. When the anarchy breaks out, we will flee. Moses was one man and he got his people out. You are all like Moses now,” he says in crisp, formal Afrikaans. “You need to be prepared for the bomb throwers,” says Fourie, referring to black South Africans. “If you want to just tag along with us, then you are a traitor.” The Suidlanders are careful to do everything by the book because they know the authorities are watching. “We are constantly monitoring the Suidlanders to see if they change tactics or step out of the confines of the law. Should they do this, then we will move on them,” says the intelligence official. At sunset, the wind whips in, flattening some tents. Thunder and sheet lightning rush in from the West, pelting the campers with rain and hail. “We are going to eat like kings tonight, in spite of the weather,” says Roche, stepping under an awning and poking his fire with a stick. “Ten years ago, we were preparing even then to implement a civil defence plan to safeguard the welfare of our people in the event of a civil war. We are further along the timeline,” he says. “What would you say to the white South Africans who aren’t paying attention to this threat?” I ask him. “We think they are going to be caught in an almighty cauldron of conflict.” Roche praises Donald Trump’s tweet about the matter. “We saw a ray of hope. Maybe there are people out there who know and care and have power and influence. Only time will tell how much is smoke and mirrors - shadows and dust.” One of his favourite topics, though, is his recent tour of the US. “We toured for six months last year. The thing that struck us was the classiness of the people who attended our talks,” he says. “They are not your radical neo-Nazi kind of people. In venue after venue, in presentation after presentation, we met sterling young guys - great guys - magnificent manners.” Both sides You may remember the people he is talking about from Charlottesville, Virginia, and the August 2017, Unite the Right rally. Thousands of white supremacists descended on the historic university town, prompting clashes between hate groups and counter-protesters. A young woman was killed when a neo-Nazi mowed her down with his Dodge Challenger vehicle. “Jews will not replace us” was a favourite chant at the rally. The images of those hate groups on the streets of America are still raw, beamed onto phones, televisions and computers around the world. One of the frames a press photographer filed that day is packed with Unite the Right protesters holding makeshift weapons and flags: Confederate, American and Nazi. In the far bottom right of the image, a Unite the Right protester wearing a hard hat and protective glasses has a wide grin. An anonymous face in a sea of racists. But not anonymous to Carla Hill, an investigator with the US-based Anti-Defamation League, who actively tracks white supremacist hate groups. The grinning man is Roche. A few days later, Trump faced reporters. Flanked by Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin, who is Jewish, Trump doubled down on his earlier comments about Charlottesville, when he equated white supremacists with counter-protesters. Roche sent a giddy audio message to the Suidlanders from Charlottesville. “I wish I was American because I would have smacked I don’t know how many, but a good few of them needed a hiding. The guys did a superb job,” Roche says in his voice note, referring to the beatings meted out to counter-protesters Investigators from the Southern Poverty Law Centre and the Anti-Defamation League in the US say that the Suidlanders and other South African right-wing organisations are successfully taking their storyline of white victimhood to the US. “American white supremacists support Roche, because they have a long fixation with South Africa as a possible model. A microcosm of what is possible in the US. “They link the fate of white people in the US to that of white South Africans,” says Hill. She adds that multiple groups in the US use South Africa as a wedge issue, trying to demonise all black South Africans to get more people to join their cause. Ethnic cleansing But how do South African groups cast themselves as victims? After all, the apartheid government was a notorious aggressor. “A systematic process of ethnic cleansing is a looming threat in South Africa,” says Ernst Roets, the deputy chief executive of AfriForum, a lobbying group. The biggest problem with Afri- Forum’s claims about possible ethnic cleansing and farm murders is that they are not true, says Gareth Newham of the Institute of Security Studies, a research group. “There is no evidence to support that. There is no evidence that a group of people are killing farmers for political purposes. It is happening because of crime,” says Newham. Newham and the institute independently track farm murders - as well as all other serious crimes. Farmers’ unions like AgriSA also keep stats on farm murders. Both say that farm murders peaked in 2001, at around 130 killings per year. Currently, farm murders are less than half that number. There were 62 murders on farms in the 2017-18 financial year, according to official police statistics, or around 0.3% of the 20336 murders in South Africa during the same period. “There is no epidemic of farm murders in South Africa. There is an epidemic of murders,” Newham says. More people are killed in taxi violence, in gang violence, by vigilante mobs than in farm murders. More police are killed. And rises in farm murders are in line with the overall increases in murder rates. Despite the facts outlined by the institute, Roets insists farmers are killed in disproportionate numbers in South Africa and that government leaders and some black South African politicians are complicit, citing the incendiary remarks of EFF leader Julius Malema. Malema has been charged with hate speech for singing the Struggle song “Kill the Boer; Kill the Farmer”. Now he substitutes “kill” with “kiss”. In June, Malema was criticised after telling a Turkish TV station that he was “not calling for the slaughter of white people for now”. In an interview with CNN, Malema did not distance himself from those comments. “No, no, I said I am not calling for the slaughter of white people for now. I will not be responsible for the future. I don’t know what will be happening in the future,” Malema told CNN. He denied that he was playing into the hands of groups like AfriForum. “They hate me for speaking equality. And they cannot imagine themselves being equal to monkeys,” he said.