This was after the Organisation Undoing Tax Abuse (Outa) questioned the survey’s results regarding attitudes of people towards e-tolls. The research suggested that there was an increase in the number of people willing to pay for e-tolls compared to the previous survey in 2016. According to the research, 51% of people were willing to pay for e-tolls - a jump from 40% of people two years ago. But Outa leader Wayne Duvenage said the research was “just a game” and used as a public relations exercise. “The actual reality is that there are fewer people paying e-tolls - 25% of people pay e-tolls. "This is a totally contradictory reality, which is why there is something flawed in the research. It is not rocket science. If the research says something is this and the reality says the opposite, what do you believe? You believe the reality,” he said. Gauteng City-Region Observatory senior researcher Christina Culwick said: “We are committed to the highest levels of academic independence and rigour in all our research, including the Quality of Life survey.” She said their academic independence was ensured through their location in and oversight by the University of Johannesburg and Wits University. “Our purpose is to provide research for provincial and local government in the city-region, but any funding from government is provided on the clear understanding of the organisation’s autonomy and independence. Its research is free of any influence from government or other quarters,” Culwick said. Culwick said the data on e-tolls was derived from a question posed to almost 25000 respondents in the survey. “We are simply reflecting the results of that survey. The results do not show a decrease in the percentage opposed to e-tolls, but rather an increase in the percentage saying they would be willing to pay for e-tolls, with a narrowing of the middle category of those who are uncertain either way,” she said. Culwick said Gauteng Premier David Makhura had been clear that “e-tolls have no future in Gauteng”. “So, if anything, this data runs counter to the provincial government’s perspective on the issue,” she said. According to her, the data indicated that e-tolls were less of an issue for poorer residents without cars than for wealthier residents who used the freeways. Culwick proposed to Duvenage to meet with them “to engage with our research and the findings of the Quality of Life surveys”. Asked whether Outa would take up its issue with researchers, Duvenage said the entity “don’t have time to waste on the information”, which contradicted reality. “The actual reality is that there are fewer people paying for e-tolls."