The group cried foul after people who didn’t register for the municipality’s service stands were allegedly relocated to the new settlement. It claimed the relocation process was riddled with corruption, and accused local ANC councillor Betty Ringane of tampering with a list of beneficiaries. Ringane flatly denied the allegations, saying those making them must provide proof. “Councillors don’t dish out houses and land. I just do oversight to ensure the delivery of services. “I want them to prove the allegations against me,” she said. Ringane said the relocation was affected by the City’s procurement process of trucks to be used to transport people from Brazzaville to Extension 19. At least 16 community representatives yesterday approached Legal Aid South Africa, seeking help to interdict the City. They wanted the metro to put on hold the relocation process until the names of registered beneficiaries had been verified. In addition, they said they did not want their councillor to be part of the process, which they said should be guided by the DA-led administration and executive mayor Solly Msimanga. They claimed the decision to seek legal action was due to allegations that service stands earmarked for them had been sold. The stands only have water and electricity infrastructure, and were handed over to people to build houses for themselves. There were initially 906 beneficiaries of the project, and only 471 had so far been relocated. The relocation was started last year in June with 471 people, and others were promised they would be relocated in September this year. The relocation didn’t materialise, and a new date of November 19 was set, but it also failed to produce positive results. “We were told by the councillor that the municipality was installing water and electricity infrastructure,” a community leader said. They said they tried in vain to get Ringane to update them about the relocation. However, Ringane said: “I called a community meeting this past weekend, and it turned out there was no one who was given a letter confirming their relocation.” She said those who wanted to take legal action against the City’s relocation process were free to do so. The councillor said she was also concerned about delays affecting the relocation, saying the municipality ought to verify the names on the list. “I also want the people of my ward to be relocated,” Ringane said. Last month Msimanga conducted an oversight visit to the Extension 19 project. He said the project would include the building of 40 RDP houses with the R5million raised from the sale of the mayoral house he inherited from the ANC administration.