She wore a simple black fitted, bold and elegant dress with a Xhosa beaded sleeve dropping to the ground during her farewell event at the Maslow Hotel, Time Square at Menlyn Maine yesterday. She said the dress represented everything she stood for. “Simple, bold yet elegant with a traditional twist to represent my Xhosa culture.” The 26-year-old is set to leave for China next Wednesday and will be representing the country against contestants from 119 countries in the competition. This year marks the 68th edition of the Miss World pageant, set to take place in Sanya, China, on December 8. Keyi said the one thing she wanted to take to the world was the country’s vibrant spirit and also to represent the country in the best way possible. She said although China was known for its different culture, she looked forward to learning about all the cultures of the world which will be represented. She believed her Miss World Beauty with a Purpose project stood her in good stead to win the competition as it came from personal experience. The project focuses on post-traumatic stress disorder and education. “When I was 17 I suffered a great deal of trauma; so I wanted to teach about post-traumatic stress disorder and give medical help to those in relation to the disorder. This is so that they can be in a better mental state to receive education which is what I am passionate about.” Keyi told those gathered that she wanted to raise awareness about post-traumatic stress disorder as a lot of people did not know about it. “Mental health is actually an issue in South Africa and a lot of campaigns are around depression, but when you mention post-traumatic stress disorder people don’t know what you are talking about. “So it was important that I raise awareness of that and to draw attention that you don’t have to experience trauma for you to be at a high risk of the disorder.” Former beauty queen Ade van Heerden and last year’s runner-up - who stood in for then crown holder Demi-Leigh Nel-Peters at the same contest last year - was there to egg Keyi on. She said Keyi had all the right qualities to win. “The country made the right choice in sending her to the pageant,” she said.