However, around the globe yesterday it was World Toilet Day, which calls for global action to ensure that everyone has a safe toilet by 2030. Themed, When Nature Calls, the day highlighted the need for toilets. The World Health Organisation said 2.3billion people still did not have basic sanitation facilities. Inadequate sanitation is estimated to cause 280000 diarrhoeal deaths annually and contributes to malnutrition. In the capital, in Brazzaville informal settlement, Atteridgeville, residents still use pit toilets, while their Skiet- poort counterparts in Salvokop and at Itireleng share mobile toilets. At Itireleng, two women told of the harrowing smell that comes out of those toilets. They said they had accepted that they should find ways to tolerate the terrible smell. A 36-year-old mother of four said that since she arrived in the informal settlement in 2003 they had used a pit toilet. The mother, who preferred to remain anonymous, said she could never get used to the smell. It gets worse when the people who come to take out the full buckets go about their task. “These toilets are also infested with rats. It is sad that our children are now exposed to these toilets; they are always sick.” A man from Skietpoort said he had no idea it was World Toilet Day; he also did not know he had the right to a safe toilet. “We have nowhere else to go; so we share these toilets. A man comes here to clean them, but they get dirty again because many people use them.” To mark the day, Unilever, through Domestos, hosted the first Flush Forum workshop with government stakeholders, business partners and industry experts to raise awareness and discuss solutions around the sanitation challenges faced in schools. The Equal Education Gauteng post-school youth members and staff attending the the World Toilet Day Flush Forum, used the opportunity to picket as Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga gave an address. They said the protest was directed at Motshekga’s refusal to comply with the Norms and Standards for School Infrastructure. This year's World Toilet Day was about nature-based solutions. The aim of the workshop was to work together towards changing the current sanitation challenges in schools. At the launch of the Sanitation Appropriate for Education initiative held in August, President Cyril Ramaphosa announced that nearly 4000 schools across South Africa were still subjected to pit latrines or other inappropriate sanitation facilities. But good news for Gauteng was that none of the schools were in the province, Steve Mabona, spokesperson for MEC Panyaza Lesufi, said yesterday.