Pretoria - The South African Police Services on Friday encouraged its members to be positive male role models during a men’s seminar to commemorate International Men’s Day at the Tshwane Police Academy. The International Men’s Day is celebrated worldwide annually on November 19 to entice men to do better and lead positive lifestyle. Policemen from all ranks travelled from various branches to partake in the seminar that provided guidelines for policemen to impress, not just at work but also in their communities and households. The officers were motivated by their police major generals to change their mentality and seek help and information because they too were human. They were discouraged from being secretly abusive to their families and to stay away from violence hurting wives, children and neighbours. Lieutenant Major General Sandile Mfazi said men had the responsibility to lead and show good leadership by being guided by ethics in everything they do. He said for the Men for Change Forum to succeed, men had to change and that was something they needed to continually work on to achieve. “It’s the way you relate with people, the way you interact with people and the way you conduct yourself. You should not be fake, you should be real. If you are yourself and you are doing things that you know are right, then you’ll succeed,” He said the seminar was initiated by the Men for Change Forum to encourage men to be transparent, to speak freely about their changes and fearlessly challenge the abuse and victimisation of women and child. The seminar saw scores of male officers nod in agreement with calls for change in what a man should be or do. They wanted men to realise that they couldn’t be strong without women. Mfazi said the South African Police Services welcomed the initiative and would always support it for the crucial role it played in encouraging ordinary men, not just movie stars and celebrities, to be good role models in their society and workplace. “This event is very important to men in general because men are always compared to other men...It is our responsibility to always seek other ways to do away with gender inequalities. "We hear everyday about stories of abuse of children and women and as members of the police we must take decisive decisions as per our mandate to defend and combat these crime,” he added.