The passage is between Monument Park East along the R21 highway to Monument Park West, Makou Street, and had been open for 39 years. Resident Fritz Louw said the closure had resulted in an extra walking distance of nearly 4km. A petition to reopen the passage had reached almost 100 signatures. A maintenance worker, who did not want to be named, said that since the closure of the passage they had missed taxis and buses on numerous occasions. He said it was worse when it rained, and at times they were mugged. “The passage was safe,” he said. Another resident, James Marupla, said that since the closure, they not only had to deal with the long walk, but worried about their safety as well. He said criminals had plenty of time to prey on them before pouncing; it was easier for people to use the shortcut through the passage. “It is an absolute and unspeakable shame that elderly people must walk 2km extra next to the busy and dangerous R21 highway because of the closure,” he said. Mike Morris said the access way was used by criminals to gain access into the suburb his property was the hardest hit. A document from the residents' association indicated that the passage went through his property and thus he had the right to close it. Morris said he had also filed a protection order against Louw who had been harassing him and his family for months. Ward councillor Philip Nel said Morris had indicated he was approached years ago by the municipality to open a passage to help community movement, to which he had agreed. But Nel said that throughout the years criminal activity was rife on the pathway and Morris gave notice that he would close it. “He said his property had been burgled numerous times and he couldn’t take it anymore. “As far as I know people in the area were not as concerned about the reopening of the pathway. I posed the question of reopening the pathway on our area WhatsApp group and few responded,” he said. Louw admitted that crimes were prevalent in Monument Park West, but access by criminals was gained through Veldpou and Makou streets (fitted with CCTV cameras) as well as from Fountains Nature Reserve fence. “There is no evidence on record that crime was committed by access through this passage,” he said.