They wanted to hold Defence Minister Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula and two of her officials in contempt of court. Lawyers for Human Rights, who took on their plight, told Judge Norman Davis that the minister and her officials turned a deaf ear to an earlier order instructing them to either allow the people back into the houses on the base, or to find them alternative accommodation. “They (the military) don’t want them there and are doing everything to keep them away. We agree it is not a place for civilians, but until they (the SANDF) turn to court to obtain a valid eviction order, they must allow these people back,” advocate Anna Marie de Vos argued. The evicted residents of Marievale are now staying at Happiness Valley just outside the base as the SANDF said there was no space for them inside the base. They said that the homes these people previously occupied, were now taken by SANDF members. In an apparent attempt to comply with a court order issued in May this year, the SANDF offered the residents two open bungalows. The plan was that the one had to be occupied by men and the other by women and children. The evicted residents had turned this offer down as it was impractical and unsuitable for their needs. Judge Davis questioned whether it would have helped if they were offered army tents as well as temporary shelter. De Vos said they would have considered the possibility if the offer was ever made, but it was not. Judge Davis granted an order in favour of the ousted residents in May declaring the evictions illegal. He at the time ordered that they had to be restored to their homes within 30 days or they had to be housed in alternative accommodation. The families were forced out of their homes a year ago by armed soldiers. Some said they had a gun pointed at them when they were told to leave. Many of the people have lived on the base for years. On the day of the judgment the minister issued a statement indicating that she will adhere to the court order and that she respected it. Lawyers for Human rights said it became apparent that the SANDF had failed to do this. They asked for an order to commit the minister, the Chief of the Army, Lieutenant-General Lindile Yam and Marievale base commander Colonel Mafihlwase Mkhize, to 120 days' imprisonment. The residents, who have now become a familiar face at the court, in the latest legal bid said they are being targeted by Mkhize and her officials. The SANDF said it had tried its best to adhere to the order, but there was simply no accommodation available. It said the open bungalows were the best it could do. Meanwhile, in a bizarre turn of events at the start of yesterday’s court proceedings, counsel for the SANDF said many of the ousted residents, who launched all the proceedings, no longer wanted to proceed with the contempt of court application. Counsel acting for the minister said these people wanted to take her side as respondents, as they felt “the truth was not told to the court”. But the court was packed with residents backing the contempt of court application and LHR said it held the mandate of these people to proceed. The judge ordered that the application had to go ahead. He commented that this was a case where the parties had to try to find some common ground. The judge will later rule on their fate.