Outraged residents blocked roads with rocks and burning tyres near the police station. Ipid spokesperson Moses Dlamini said they received a report of a “death as a result of police action in Soshanguve, near the police station”. “An Ipid investigator had great difficulty accessing the scene as the community had blocked the roads with burning tyres,” he said. Dlamini said the scene was assessed by the Public Order Police and the K9 Unit. But by that time the body had been moved to the mortuary. Dlamini said information was sketchy at this stage, but there was a cluster operation conducted by the crime prevention and uniformed members of the SAPS at the T-junction of Commissioner Street, a few metres from the police station. There was a group of young men selling counterfeit CDs or DVDs. “The officers surrounded the group, who ran off in different directions. One of the men fell to the ground and died,” he said. Dlamini said Ipid investigators would visit the scene to try to find more witnesses. The post-mortem on the 30-year-old victim was scheduled for today and will be attended by Ipid investigators. Residents in the area blame the police for the death. They told the Pretoria News that “police officers who kill us for trying to make a living have no place in our community”. The community claimed that a community member was beaten to death by the police. Residents said that just before the R80 Mabopane Highway, police members embarked on a raid chasing youngsters selling pirated CDs early in the morning. They claimed matters escalated, and they watched in horror as a group of officers beat Thomas Ditshele to death after he had fallen while trying to escape. The residents said they then demanded to see the station commander of the Soshanguve police station. While waiting, they said police started shooting rubber bullets at them. The residents went on the rampage, blocking the roads and burning tyres. Another resident, Jan Maropola, was allegedly shot twice by police as he returned from fetching a friend’s child from school. An ambulance took him to hospital. Residents said they were fed up with the treatment they had received at the hands of the police.