The quartet comprises Tumelo Makgampha, Lesedi Kgatitswe, Nonofang Disetlhe and Calvin Vorster, aka, Chilli Bite, Les Mahlanyeng, Blulyt and Yellow Bone. They are making waves around town and beyond with a dance craze called Thuso Phala, named in honour of a SuperSport United player. The Pretoria News learnt they are in demand internationally, and have a punishing touring schedule - Namibia, Botswana, Lesotho, Zimbabwe, Zambia and Mozambique. Chilli Bite, they say, is intended to evoke the piquant sensation or “hot” challenge of biting into a chilli. 1. Are you from the capital? Chill Bite: Les Mahlanyeng and I are from here. We met in Soshanguve although I’m originally from Brits. Blulyt: I’m originally from Mahikeng. Yellow Bone: I’m from Bloemfontein but brought up in the Eastern Cape. 2. What are you studying? Blulyt: Yellow Bone and I are TUT fine arts students. Chilli Bite:Les Mahlaneng and I are full-time dance artists. 3. What do you like most about the city? Yellow Bone: It’s energy. Les Mahlaneng: It’s depth of talent. DJ Box, Black Motion and DJ Maphorisa come from my hood in Soshanguve. Chilli Bite: Entrepreneurship. I see this group as a branding opportunity as we have brought out branded apparel, including caps, golf shirts, jumpers and pants. Blulyt: It’s much bigger than my hometown of Mahikeng and so a welcome challenge. 4. What would you change if you were mayor of the capital? Blulyt: I’d make sure that I empower young people in terms of finding themselves in their chosen careers. Chilli Bite: Pretoria is a place with very few dance facilities and studios, with the exception of State Theatre and a few others. I’d change that. Les Mahlaneng: I'd take the kids off the street and put them in a dance studio. 5. Advantage of living here? Yellow Bone: Pretoria is so big. I hail from Lady Grey. This is a good adjustment. Blulyt: In Mahikeng I was attached to Mmabana Theatre whose equivalent here would be the State Theatre. Chilli Bite: Easy to network. 6. Your role in the group? Blulyt: Inspiring young girls. Me doing this says gender equality is possible. Yellow Bone: I’m keen the diversity dimension my presence brings. Chilli Bite: I want to inspire entrepreneurship. Les Mahlaneng: Cohesiveness is uppermost.