This was after Gordhan was re-appointed as finance minister following the 2015 turmoil in the markets which was precipitated by the controversial sacking of Nhlanhla Nene and the appointment of Des van Rooyen, who stayed in office for only four days. Gordhan is today expected to spend the third day testifying at the commission into state capture allegations. He said that while Zuma had told him that he re-appointed him because he was told he (Gordhan) was the only one who could calm markets, it was clear he was not welcome and that a new plot was being pursued to force him out again to make way for those who would enable state capture. “Notwithstanding this campaign to force us to resign, we decided that we would resist and protect the institution,” Gordhan said. He also weighed in on Jonas’s allegations that the Guptas had offered him a ministerial post, adding that he was among those who were told by Jonas immediately after the offer was made by the family. “We decided that he was going to keep quiet. We did not want to do anything that would be disruptive or send the wrong signals to the public and investors,” he said. On his first day on the stand on Monday, Gordhan detailed how Zuma pushed for Tom Moyane to be installed as Sars commissioner in 2014 despite an appointment process that was already under way, with about 120 applicants waiting to be shortlisted. Gordhan said yesterday that while Sars was accountable to the finance ministry as an institution, Moyane displayed defiance against him when he (Gordhan) was re-appointed. “Moyane made serious allegations against me and refused to accept that as I was finance minister he was accountable and answerable to me for the performance of Sars. However, the former president did nothing to intervene in this deteriorating relationship, to facilitate adjudication of the dispute or to resolve it in any other less formal way,” Gordhan said. He accused Moyane of refusing to brief him even on the controversial changes he was undertaking at the revenue service, which contributed to his axing. “If you are undertaking major changes in the organisation, then you tell the minister this is what is going on. You must find the first possible opportunity to brief the minister in that regard,” he said. Gordhan was also at pains to stress to the commission that while he had met the Gupta brothers at gatherings, he had never had one-on-one meetings with them. “I refused to schedule a meeting with the Gupta family, whether at their residence or anywhere else,” he said. Outside, EFF leader Julius Malema hit out at Gordhan, accusing his daughter Alicia Gordhan of doing business with the government and benefiting. The EFF has since laid a charge against Gordhan with the public protector. Malema alleged that Gordhan’s daughter had 10 companies and asked the ministers which she had contracts with to confirm these, and only three of those ministers had confirmed. “Today, Pravin’s daughter is resigning from those companies as a director. Today, these journalists are asking Pravin why is the EFF attacking you and not asking the question we have given them. We came here for the second day to protest against the enabler of state capture,” said Malema in his address. - Additional reporting: Ayanda Mdluli