This is according to members of the family in Soshanguve of the 30-year-old who died last Friday, allegedly after being beaten by police during a raid. It is claimed police found him near the R80 Mabopane highway and stopped him and others from selling pirated CDs. In retaliation for his death, community members blocked the road and attacked the police station, tearing down the gate and sections of the fence surrounding it. The family said they were deeply saddened by the police silence, which was exacerbated by claims that Ditshele was not selling CDs. Another claim was that police had been receiving calls about the man using the discs as a front for selling illegal substances. His elder sister, Francinah Ditshele, said the family had been deeply hurt by what had happened to their brother, and rumours of him selling drugs hurt them further. She said anyone who knew her brother would have known he simply sold CDs to support their ailing grandmother. “Even if you saw him and the clothes he wore, you could see he was nothing more than a poor soul who couldn’t even buy himself a pair of pants. And all because he was simply trying to ensure our grandmother had something to eat. “So all this about him selling drugs surprises us because that’s not the brother we know.” Francinah said the family was still coming to terms with what had happened and was hurt the police had not bothered to ask them what help the family needed. The only people who had been at the family’s “beck and call” were the Community Policing Forum and the Independent Police Investigative Directorate (Ipid). Ditshele’s uncle David Makalela said a post-mortem had been completed and the body of his nephew had been taken to the mortuary. Makalela said the only matter that was troubling the family other than the rumours of him selling drugs was that the SAPS was not offering any help to the family. “The community really tried their best to help us, but we have no idea how we will afford to transport and secure all those who wish to come and accompany the family.” The Ditshele family home was yesterday a hive of activity, with family members beginning preparations for the burial this weekend. The main service will be held at the family home, with the procession heading towards the Soshanguve Cemetery from 9am. SAPS spokesperson Brigadier Vish Naidoo said the matter was with Ipid, which was investigating the incident.