Pretoria - The mother whose premature twins were born at just 29 weeks earlier this year, recalls the overwhelming experience of raising them so far. Marcia Makhondo was speaking during the Annual World Prematurity Day celebration held at Mediclinic Medforum, Pretoria where the twins were kept in the neonatal intensive care unit (NICU) for 33 days. The event was attended by hospital staff and other parents whose babies were also born early. The day is observed each year on November 17 to raise awareness of pre-term birth and concerns thereof, for the babies and their families. Makhondo said she had preeclampsia which contributed to early delivery. “The experience of raising premature babies is quite intense. "My daughter born in 2015 was also a premature baby because I had preeclampsia then and with the twins it was worse because they were very tiny. “They stayed in hospital for 33 days before being sent home and we had to come to hospital everyday to check up on them. "The babies only weighed 1.4kgs so it really wasn’t easy. “You have people who want to fiddle with your baby and they tell you how tiny your baby is and things hurt so badly,” she told attendees. Now at seven months, the mother said the twins were thriving and doing quite well. During the celebration,developmental physiotherapist Tami Van Aswegen spoke about the role of mothers in the NICU. Van Aswegen said Kangaroo Mother Care (KMC) - a technique of newborn care where babies are kept skin-to-skin with a parent, typically their mother was one of the crucial things parents could give to their preemies. She stressed the benefits, saying the technique reduced chances of infection. “What can you do as a mother to feel in control of the situation? You can breastfeed, do KMC and be involved in the care taking routine. “KMC decreases the risk of infection by 49%, the risk of hospital readmission by 58% and also has positive effects on the development of a child during the first year of life,” she said. According to research premature birth is the leading cause of death worldwide in children under the age of five. Every year, 15 million babies are born premature worldwide with more than 1 million dying, and many more facing serious, lifelong health challenges.