Pretoria - A looming court interdict by disgruntled residents of Brazzaville informal settlement against the City of Tshwane's plan to relocate people to Atteridgeville Extension 19 threatens to stall the project. Some residents claimed the decision to seek legal action was due to allegations that a local councillor had sold service stands earmarked for them. The service stands were empty sites with only water and electricity infrastructure and were handed over to people to build houses for themselves. There were initially 906 people, who were listed as beneficiaries of the relocation process and 471 of them have already been moved. On Tuesday, at least 16 community representatives approached Legal Aid, seeking legal assistance to interdict the city. They wanted the city to put on hold the relocation process until the names of registered beneficiaries have been verified. The group cried foul that the process was riddled with corruption, pointing fingers at those who tampered with a list of programme beneficiaries. Many pointed fingers at the local councillor, Betty Ringane, accusing her of tampering with a list of beneficiaries. Ringane denied the allegations, saying those making them must provide proof. "Councillors don't dish out houses and land. I just do oversight to ensure the delivery of services. I want them to prove allegations against me," she said. She said the relocation was affected by the city's procurement process of trucks to be used to transport people from Brazzaville to Extension 19. "I called a community meeting this past weekend and there was no one who was given a letter confirming their relocation," she said. She said those who wanted to take legal action against the city's relocation process were free to exercise their democratic rights. She said she was also concerned about delays affecting the relocation, saying the municipality ought to verify the names on the list. "I also want the people of my ward to be relocated," Ringane said. Pretoria News