The thatch-roofed rondavels, where Archbishop Desmond Tutu and other notables were schooled many decades ago, were burnt to ashes in July. The fire was apparently started by children playing there. Heuvelman was behind the project to lobby support for renovating the heritage site in 2004 from Dutch municipality, the City of Delft. She said the intention was to lobby support and restore the site to its former glory and to turn it into a tourist attraction. The need to rebuild the place was identified by the community of Mamelodi and the City of Delft. “When we saw the rondavels around the 2000s, they were in a bad state, and there were people who had occupied them illegally. Both the City of Tshwane and Delft Municipality worked together to get things in place to be able to make it a historic cultural place,” Heuvelman said. She recalled how she left the rondavels under the impression that everything was in place. “We left knowing that they were renovated, only to find out last year by meeting one of the community members that things were not looking well, and the person asked me to visit the place.” During her visit in March this year, “the windows were broken and the grass was tall, but the buildings were still intact,” she said. But what she saw when she visited the place this week was shocking. “I cried. I had tears in my eyes because it was so shocking. The sight of the burnt building was horrific to me,” she said. Although she was reluctant to state the cost of rebuilding the site, she estimated that it could run into millions of rand. She organised a workshop attended by community representatives with a view to explore ways to resuscitate the heritage centre. Boitumelo Masesane, a Reaitirela community forum member, said Heu- velman lobbied for funds previously used in the renovations of the structures. “When she saw the rondavels she was heartbroken. She immediately asked what she can do to assist,” Masesane said. “On Saturday members of our forum and other community members will embark on a clean-up campaign at the site,” she said. In July, MMC for Economic Development and Spatial Planning Randall Williams said the previous ANC-led administration spent close to R22million to renovate the place, but there was nothing to show for it.