During a community meeting at the Mabopane Indoor Sports Hall, she was interacting with people about opportunities in the tourism sector. Thabethe pleaded with community members to show interest in destination marketing with a view to attracting tourists from abroad to visit their places and boost their local economies. She also spoke up against the scourge of crime affecting tourists, saying efforts ought to be made to ensure visitors were not raped. “We then have to make sure that we will be able to change the situation and make sure that tourists can be free and they are not raped,” she said. Thabethe talked about programmes which included enterprise development, skills development as well as the tourism incentive programme that people can access from her department. “As the Department of Tourism, we have numerous programmes that seek to empower people, mainly women and the youth, in developing and sustaining their businesses. Our department is also passionate about providing skills to unemployed youth, as a measure of addressing the scourge of unemployment in our country.” The gathering was in line with the National Imbizo Focus Week, aimed at promoting skills development, career and entrepreneurial opportunities, particularly for youth. It also intended to reignite people’s confidence in the economy and government’s jobs-creation efforts. Tshwane MMC for Economic Development Randall Williams said tourism largely contributed to job creation, and was a driver of socio-economic growth and sustainable development. “In an effort to ensure that tourism yields the benefits, it has the potential to deliver we as the City are recognising our Tourism Division to focus on the sectors we believe can yield more positive results,” he said. Lack of information about opportunities in the tourism sector and not having the requisite know-how to run a business were identified among the challenges facing would-be entrepreneurs in townships. Oupa Mabatha, who has opened a guesthouse, was happy that his hospitality business would soon be graded by professionals. Thabethe said: “Grading gives tourists an assurance that the place is safe and clean.”