In terms of the judgment by Judge Anneli Basson, the Department of Mineral Resources cannot issue a mining right without the consent of the affected people in terms of existing legislation. The Xolobeni community in the Eastern Cape, represented by the Amadiba Crisis Committee, approached the court to prevent the department from issuing a mining licence to Australian mining conglomerate Transworld Energy and Minerals. The company wanted to mine the titanium-rich sand along the Wild Coast, in the area known as uMgungundlovu. It is a coastline area of immense natural beauty, the judge said in her opening remarks. “The sands on this beautiful coastline area are rich in titanium. Several hundred people (the applicants) and their ancestors have lived on this land according to their customs and traditions for centuries.” The judge said it wasn't in dispute that the applicants hold informal rights to the land, as defined by the Interim Protection of Informal Land Rights Act, and that they occupy the land in accordance with their laws and customs. The proposed mining area comprises about 2860 hectares along coastal land, which is 22km long and 1.5km inland from the high-water mark. Most of the affected community live close to the proposed mining area. Most of the affected people in the area are related by blood or marriage and have lived there for generations. They have family graves in the area, considered to be essential sites for family and community rituals. Their cattle also graze on the land. The Mgungundlovu community don't want Transworld to mine on their ancestral land for several reasons, including that it could trigger massive conflict within the community between those who stood to benefit and those who would be prejudiced. The community was in February 2016 informed of the mining right application issued by the company. They were up in arms as they did not consent to the mining activities. They argued that the granting of the mineral right constituted a deprivation of their land. Judge Basson fully agreed with this. She said that at the heart of this application was who gets to decide whether mining activities can take place here - the community who have been living there for centuries, or the applicant. She said that in terms of the law, the community had a right to decide what should happen to their land. “In keeping with the purpose of the act to protect the informal rights of customary communities that were previously not protected by the law, the applicants in this matter therefore have the right to decide what happens to their land. “As such they may not be deprived of their land without their consent. Where the land is held on a communal basis - as in this matter - the community must be placed in a position to consider the proposed deprivation and be allowed to take a communal decision in terms of their custom and community, on whether they consent or not to a proposal to dispose of their rights to their land,” the judge said. She said the mineral resources minister lacked lawful authority to grant a mining right to the company, and he was obliged to first obtain the community's full and informed consent.