While they do not need separate or special education, they require a more flexible education system, adviser for basic education, child rights and social inclusion Els Heijnen said. She was speaking at the sixth annual Disability Rights conference hosted by the University of Pretoria’s Centre for Human Rights at the St George Hotel and Conference Centre. The two-day conference was held under the theme “Inclusive Education for Children with Disabilities”. It was attended by members of civil society, academics, policy makers, disability rights holders, NGOs, decision makers, education policy makers, academic institutions and government officials. According to the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Article 24, inclusive education is a fundamental right for all pupils. It further states that education is the right of the individual pupils and not the right of a parent or caregiver. Parental responsibilities in this regard are subordinate to the rights of the child. It states that parties must ensure that persons with disabilities have the right to education through an inclusive education system at all levels, including pre-schools, primary, secondary and tertiary education, vocational training and lifelong learning, extracurricular and social activities without discrimination and on equal terms with others. Heijen said there was an enormous lack of data and knowledge when it comes to who disabled children are, where they live, how many there are and what kind of disabilities they have. “There is an absence of disability definitions. There are times where children are labelled as having attention deficit disorders or autism disorders so maybe we should start using international definitions and descriptions like the international classification system for children with needs. “There is an enormous dependence on medical assistance, when children have disabilities they get medical labels. How useful are these labels for teachers? How does that assist in them teaching such children? It is not helpful at all. Children are called cripples, slow learners, mentally retarded and sometimes the use of acronyms to identify children with disabilities comes in. Since when do we use acronyms for real people?” Centre for Human Rights assistant director Dr Nkatha Murungi told the audience to apply their minds to fast-tracking the attainment of inclusive education. “Generally, we all agree that inclusive education is imperative, but we have questions as to why we have not made as much progress. So what can we do to translate those commitments into practical actions?” Stakeholders and speakers discussed and exchanged models of best practice relating to the role of special schools in an inclusive education.