Ramokgopa was at the Pretoria hospital to launch a new bunker and Linear Accelerator machine. During the visit, she learnt that Steve Biko Academic Hospital and Charlotte Maxeke Johannesburg Academic Hospital had about 1000 cancer patients between them awaiting treatment. The head of department for radiation and oncology at Steve Biko, Professor Ray Lakier, told Ramokgopa that he had been waiting for the machine for six years. Lakier said they were glad when it was announced that the machine capable of providing world-class treatment to cancer patients would be brought to the hospital. The Linear Accelerator is the ninth machine of its kind in the province. Head of radiography Prevania Pillay said it was exciting to receive new machines, especially when the other four in the department were older and slower. The new machine would be able to treat a lot more patients, and faster, than previously. The older machines required 50 minutes treatment time, but it is just five minutes on the new equipment. “The influx of cancer patients into the department has been a lot, especially this year. We are really in a backlog at the moment; so this machine will really help. “I won't say it would make a huge dent, but it will help; it is just the fact that we have to treat patients from out of the province as well.” The machine has the capability of treating small tumours, especially those in the brain. The system is faster and can perform advanced treatment in a shorter time. It can also accommodate patients that are above the weight the previous machines could not handle. Ramokgopa said projects of procuring medical equipment were key in improving the quality of care and to confront the cancer epidemic. The new bunker and machine would relieve the burden of cancer. Ramokgopa announced that her department was procuring two more machines - for Steve Biko and another for Charlotte Maxeke. “We are really excited that we were able to deliver on our promises.” The launch also formed part of Cancer Awareness Day at the facility. The event included engagements with patients and a visit to the nuclear medicine unit and chemotherapy treatment area. Steve Biko’s oncology department offers a wide range of cancer treatment, and patients come all the way from neighbouring provinces - and countries. There they access nuclear medicine diagnosis, staging and treatment of liver cancer therapy, prostate cancer treatment, malignant melanoma treatment and bone marrow transplantation for leukaemia and lymphoma patients, to mention a few. Ramokgopa stressed that early detection was important in the treatment of cancer. The first cancer patients will be treated on the new equipment on November 27 after staff members have undergone training and the machine has been commissioned.