Pretoria - “Victory is ours through collective action” - so said the 100 inspirational #TheWomenOfFortitude as they pledged to take on the fighting spirit of apartheid political activist Albertina Sisulu for change. Women young and old, from entrepreneurs, media practitioners, legal fraternity, social personalities, businesswomen and industry leaders from all nine provinces were commended at the official launch of the campaign at Union Buildings. Minister in the presidency, Jeff Radebe, said through the programme they were officially handing over the baton for change to the women to steer ahead in dealing with the numerous challenges plaguing our communities. “You are the role models that will inspire the change that will make Ma Sisulu smile from her grave. Her legacy will continue to live through your work, leadership and examples.” To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video  Bathabile Dlamini, Minister of Women, addressing the women, said the struggle and work was not over and women needed to be united especially considering how they constituted 51% of the country’s population. Dlamini implored on the ambassadors to use Sisulu’s values in order to assist them in addressing some of the most persistent national challenges especially with regards to the gap between public policy aspirations and the private lives of women. This as she said despite social status, publically and in private, women continued to be differentiated from their male counterparts on the basis of patriarchal doctrines. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video  “Our continued need to be understanding has made us compromise our core principle of achieving gender equality and what is in the Constitution.” “Understanding made us accept femicide and the senseless killing of women and children is part of our daily life but moving forward we can’t continue like this anymore.”