But many remain frustrated by the process. In April a change did away with the long queues at licensing centres such as Waltloo and Centurion, with motorists now able to pre-book an appointment time on the Road Traffic Management Corporation’s eNatis system. But, say those who try, the system often “hangs” and when they do get through they cannot get a booking at a time or place which is convenient to them. “When you near your wits' end, and drive to a testing station to try to make an appointment manually, they chase you away and tell you to do it online,” a frustrated motorist told the Pretoria News. Another said that although he lived in Garsfontein, the only booking he could get was in Akasia, and it was at the end of November after his licence had expired. He said he knew that the metro had introduced an online appointment booking system but when he visited the website, there was a notice saying it had been closed. After waiting close to half an hour for the call centre, he was directed to the eNatis site to make a booking. Unless he was willing to travel to Meyerton, the earliest suitable date was at the Akasia Licensing Department, a distance of 40km away. There was no indication that walk-ins were allowed, and some confusion over ID photos - if print copies were required or it was captured electronically such as at Home Affairs. A resident of Faerie Glen said she found the booking site easy and got an appointment to renew her licence at Waltloo within a week. “Once there the procedure took a mere 15 minutes and they even accepted my eye test,” she said. However, she said the delay came in waiting to pay, and she did not know how long she would wait for the licence with industrial action causing delays. Another motorist who spoke to the Pretoria News said she had applied for her licence at Waltloo in August and three months later had still not been notified that it was ready for collection. “An application for a driving licence is supposed to take six weeks but when her husband tried to fetch it on Tuesday last week, he and about 50 other people were made to wait in the queue for three hours. “Eventually, they attended to them only to tell them that no licences had arrived,” she said. RTMC spokesperson Simon Zwane dismissed the claims that the online booking system was not working. “The system works just fine; the only reason the system could hang is if people spend too much time on a section. “Motorists need to understand that the system is timed, so if they spend a lot of time before they proceed to another section, it will hang but other than that, the system works just fine,” he said. When one applies for a licence, it is advised to get a temporary driving permit at the same time. This is valid for six months and will protect a driver from a fine should they be caught driving without a valid licence. Tshwane Metro Police Department spokesperson Senior Superintendent Isaac Mahamba said they had encountered a few cases where people could not show a driving licence because they had applied but were waiting to receive it. “We advise people not to wait until the last minute to renew their licences,” he said.