Announcing the feeder zone policy that will govern admissions by 2020, a tough-talking MEC Panyaza Lesufi promised that his bold move would ensure that no pupils are excluded from schools in their vicinity or those located within 30km from their homes. Gauteng has a long history of battles between African parents and Afrikaans-medium schools over admissions. Just at the beginning of this year, African parents were up in arms when Hoërskool Overvaal in Vereeniging denied 55 of their children access though the school was right outside their doorstep. The stand-off deteriorated into protests outside the Afrikaans-medium Overvaal, which turned ugly as police and parents clashed. Lesufi was confident that he has found a remedy for upheavals over learner admissions. His magic bullet was that all schools should redraft their policies and submit them to the department. “Any school that had a policy on language, admissions, uniform, hair must now resubmit those policies to the department.” Lesufi denied he was gunning for Afrikaans-medium schools, but insisted no school would be allowed to exclude learners based on language. “We’re not scrapping any language,” he said. “All languages will be protected, including Afrikaans. “But with the new feeder zone, if there are people that want an additional language (in the school) you can’t close your eyes and ears. “It doesn’t make sense when your language policy says, ‘no, we only concentrate on (this language)‘ but your feeder zone has people that speak another language. “That is why everyone must resubmit their policies so that we can change them or concur with them or indicate where they need to make some changes,” Lesufi said. Schools in many former whites-only communities have a language problem, said the MEC. “Those houses that are surrounding Overvaal are excluded, not on the basis that they are not within the feeder zone but because of language. “This new (policy) incorporates everyone. “You go to Centurion, it doesn’t mean that you don’t have schools there. “The problem is that the schools that can accommodate people (learning in) English are fewer and English is spoken by the majority. “The schools (teaching in) the language of a minority are in the majority. This feeder zone (policy) will resolve the problem,” Lesufi said. He had some stinging words for pro-Afrikaans groups that he said were threatening to drag him to court. “They might have oppressed our grandparents and parents and succeeded. “They might have tried to oppress us and we stopped them, but they will never oppress our children and their children’s children. That will never happen.” Lesufi said the Federation of Governing Bodies of South African Schools (Fedsas) threatened to interdict the policy. But Jaco Deacon, the organisation’s deputy chief executive, denied this. However, he said Lesufi’s plans over school language policies were in conflict with the Constitution.