The story of South Africa’s worst rampage killer is in that box, which has remained unopened at the National Archives since 1989 when it was packed away. Barend Hendrik Strydom was the horrifying inevitable outcome of apartheid: a young white Afrikaner man who couldn’t contain the racism into which he had been born. A loner with no exceptional qualities, slouching towards another man’s wife, he fitted the description of so many spree shooters. But white supremacy raised him in a country where the hate of anyone black was not only encouraged but legal, and that allowed Strydom to express himself through mass murder. He predicted with a smile that he would never be hanged nor spend his life in prison after gunning down more than 20 black people on a public square in the capital city 30 years ago this week. And he was right. Strydom didn’t need to draw on the Afrikaner tradition of misery poetry to rally empathy with his volk. He wanted to be the match that exploded a fire of Boer resistance into a violent new race war but instead, the apartheid state gave him amnesty in 1992. He spent barely three summers behind bars. Strydom and most of apartheid’s heinous hitmen are the remorseless beneficiaries of democracy. Living quietly in Hartbeespoort outside Pretoria, Strydom crafts and sells rustic picture frames, able to make a living, own a house and support his wife and sons in a community that shields him. That’s a fortunate life in South Africa, where unemployment is officially at nearly 30%, and black lives don’t matter much more than they used to when racists ran the country by the barrels of the same Beretta used by Strydom. His bullets filled that box in the National Archives with blood. Eight black families buried someone named in its files who he shot dead on November 15, 1988. When Strydom loaded his first magazine into his 9mm Vektor pistol, he was a 23-year-old ex-cop who left the force after he was investigated for a photograph in which he appeared holding a knife in one hand and the decapitated head of a black man in the other, the picture taken at an accident scene. The emotional weight of another 16 black families are in that box. They’ve moved through three decades bearing the mental and physical injuries of someone they love who took a bullet to the head, chest, torso, legs or arms when Strydom pulled the trigger with a grin. Dozens more who witnessed the horror he unleashed that day haven’t found resolution. In one of many ironies of the post-democratic state, the Strijdom Square massacre is barely remembered. While the government changes the names of streets and towns around the country to recognise bravehearts of the Struggle, the Department of Arts and Culture - which administers an Unsung Heroes fund - has said it will memorialise Strydom’s victims only next year. And that pledge has been made out of the efforts of a man who was a 17-year-old schoolboy when he saw Strydom kill three of his victims that darkest afternoon. Bradley Steyn, who has battled Post-Traumatic Stress Syndrome (PTSD) ever since, has been living in the US and elsewhere abroad since the mid-1990s when he was exiled for his own safety by the ANC. It was a contradiction. Thousands of exiles had returned, jubilant, after the last apartheid president, FW de Klerk, unbanned the liberation movements on February 2, 1990, to mitigate the collapse of a bankrupt country. But Steyn had a price on his head, the bounty apparently decided in Cape Town’s notorious Pollsmoor Prison where gangsters were hired by bitter and dangerous former members of the apartheid Security Branch to get rid of him. Steyn’s return to South Africa to find other survivors and families of those killed by Strydom has become a deeply emotional bid to make a contribution to his country. The supremacist killer ended Steyn’s school life in Standard 10 (Grade 12) when he lost all his teenage joy after having held one of Strydom’s victims, who was drowning in his own blood after being shot twice at close range, in his lap. That memory and experience obliterated the peaceful life of a white suburban boy who had been on his way to have lunch with his mother when he walked into the massacre after rugby practice. Steyn is still trying to piece together the events of that day, poring over those records in that box in part to identify the man who heaved so desperately in his arms as Strydom proselytised above them. Steyn was stunned to find photographs showing himself surrounded by first responders as he cradled the man’s head in his hands, his own blond hair bloodied in the sunlight. While Steyn’s teacher wife and 8-year-old daughter wait anxiously in Los Angeles for him to come home, he’s stumbling through acute mental anguish and exhilaration every time a survivor comes to light, or he finds another clue to locate more people who he believes are in the same position as him. But it’s slow work. The only way to track them down is through the 30-year-old evidence which delivers addresses that no longer exist, or were incorrectly recorded, or where the current residents have only faint recollections that such a person was ever there. It’s a long time ago in the life of a turbulent nation. Many witnesses were already in their middle age or older when Strydom tramped through merging puddles of human blood with his combat boots that day. He was wearing full camouflage and a custom-made belt bearing the words Wit Wolf, or “white wolf” - his attempt at manufacturing a new racist organisation of which he claimed to be the leader. That tale was dismissed with contempt by the court which sentenced Strydom to death in May 1989, calling him “worse” than other “terrorist” leaders for his extreme lack of compassion. After Steyn left school at 17, his parents enlisted him in the Permanent Force of the South African Navy. He was discharged a couple of years later after he pushed an officer through a window in a rage after he was denied a pass to visit his ill father. Crumbling under the pressures of untreated PTSD and a persistent fury, Steyn then became a bouncer in Cape Town’s clubland before joining a company that earned protection money within a thriving and violent underworld. His crew were soon recognised by the apartheid Security Branch as useful tools in its brutal crackdown on activists, and Steyn found a terrifying comfort in thuggery and state-sanctioned sabotage while gradually realising he was on the wrong path towards his own redemption. Recruited by the ANC’s Department of Intelligence and Security (DIS) through the very underground Steyn was hired by government spies to penetrate, he then worked for the liberation movement which embraced him as a brother and comrade. In a mighty act of irony, DIS deployed him into the white rightwing where he was its spy for two years before the bounty was placed out of Pollsmoor on his head. As supremacists who shared the same hate as Strydom sought to eliminate Steyn, his commitment to the ANC and his worth as a South African grew. He tells his story in Undercover with Mandela’s Spies, a book and a non-fiction thriller which is to be published by Jacana in April next year. But Steyn doubts that even that book, which lays bare the effects of a massacre on a survivor, examines white toxic masculinity and details his path from schoolboy to spy, will have as much of a positive impact on his life as that box in the National Archives. It’s become Steyn’s beacon, and his fury at Strydom, which has left him wretched from Pretoria to Cape Town to London to Los Angeles for 30 years, is being filtered into a love for every name he’s uncovered inside it. In particular, the file wrapped in the pink ribbon, is pushing him ever forwards. There are black bodies inside that file - savage images after a racist nightmare made real on five city blocks and a sunny square where people eating their lunch and reading newspapers were surprised by a gunman out of nowhere. Each silent face matters. Each stitch closing a bullet hole in every photograph in that file matters as it, too, is finally calculated in the toll of apartheid.