Judge Babalwa Mantame said during her judgment that the behaviour of Saunders was the “most brutal, ruthless and vicious this court has ever seen”. Courtney’s mother, Juanita Pieters, who had left Courtney and her older brother at home as she went to work, was granted immunity from prosecution. “This court is satisfied that the State proved its case beyond reasonable doubt,” Judge Mantame said. Supporters outside court said they were overjoyed but would make sure there would not be another case like that of Courtney’s. Elsies River resident Mawecia Botha said: “We feel happy and we can go on now but Elsies River residents must rest assured that we will walk the streets and see that our children go to school safely and that they are not roaming around. There is not going to be another Courtney (case) in Elsies River.” Botha said there would be a forum started in Elsies River soon. National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) of South Africa spokesperson Eric Ntabazalila said what will be asked for is a prescribed minimum sentence for each of the charges - life imprisonment for each. “We want to extend our appreciation to the community of Elsies River who assisted and deemed everything possible to ensure that we win this case. I don’t want to call it a win because an innocent life was lost and it was a child who died a very painful death and very brutal by someone we can call a liar,” Ntabazalila said. Judge Mantame, in her judgment, said the only conclusion that could be drawn was that Saunders had penetrated the toddler with his penis. “If the accused’s explanation could be accepted, then where did the semen in the deep vaginal vault come from? “There could be two reasons, this could be penile penetration or contamination,” Judge Mantame said. However, she said it was highly improbable that the semen came from Saunders’s fingers and that the only conclusion that could be drawn is that Saunders penetrated the toddler with his penis. She added that there was enough proof beyond reasonable doubt that Courtney’s vaginal injuries were caused antemortem. “The accused was the last person to see the deceased alive. The only inference to be drawn is that the semen belonged to the accused,” Judge Mantame said. Saunders was arrested in May last year after the body of Courtney was found in Epping Industria, nine days after she was reported missing from her Elsies River home. Saunders denied raping the girl before she died, but has admitted to necrophilia. He also claimed that she died after he fed her ant poison because she had been disturbing him in the house he shared with her and her family. Judge Mantame also made it clear that on the charge of premeditated murder, Saunders knew the effects of the poison as he had explained in his own version even before poisoning Courtney. “Time is not the only consideration. Only a few minutes is enough and it is clear that the quantity administered was high. If he wanted to make her sick there was enough time to get medical attention. “From his actions, it is clear that he wanted to silence her,” Judge Mantame said. Judge Mantame said Saunders might have harboured negative feelings toward the toddler’s mother, Juanita Pieters, but the court rejected his version that getting back at her mother was reason enough to violate and poison Courtney. African News Agency (ANA)