Executive Mayor Solly Msimanga told the Pretoria News the report was the root of the criticism by Premier David Makhura that the City was the worst performing metro in the province. Msimanga said the research in question was initiated under the ANC-led administration. After Ekurhuleni Executive Mayor Mzwandile Masina defeated a motion of no confidence tabled by the DA over a week ago, Makhura urged the party to rather focus on Tshwane, which he said was the worst performing metro. He repeated the statement during the march against e-tolls to the Union Buildings on Friday. He referred to the dirty water in Hammanskraal and blamed the DA-led city administration for the malfeasance. The survey highlighted difficulties of accessing clean water as a serious concern among some City residents. The 86-page report had been commissioned by the Gauteng City Region Observatory in partnership with the South African Local Government Association, Wits University and the University of Johannesburg. While the research was conducted during the 2015/16 period, its report was made available in September this year. Msimanga said Makhura’s scathing remarks about the dire state of service delivery in the city was motivated by contents in the report. The contested report drew comparisons in service delivery between the three metros in the province. It found that Tshwane was the only metro where access to piped water was a serious challenge. But, Msimanga said: “For the longest period of time the people of Refentse (also known as Stinkwater) had challenges of water. “But now 10000 households stand to benefit from piped water after the City ensured the installation of the pipeline from the reservoir in Soshanguve Block DD would transport water to those households.” The R70million project to install a 13km pipeline from a reservoir in Soshanguve Block DD to Stinkwater was launched last month. The report noted that, compared to other metros, low proportion of people interviewed in the City reported that their water was always clean. Most said their water was seldom or never clean. While the report lamented the fact that Tshwane was the only metro that scored below the provincial average of 85% on the quality of its water, it also noted “an overall improvement in self-reported water cleanliness over time since 2009”. Some 84% of City respondents said their refuse were removed once a week. “While this figure is below the provincial average of 88% and below the other two metros with Joburg at 91% and Ekurhuleni at 92%, it is higher than all other municipalities in the province besides Midvaal,” the report said. Things were, however, not all doom and gloom in municipality. The report said the metro fared well in terms of the proportion of people who had access to electricity, with 95%. This was markedly better than both Josburg and Ekurhuleni, which stood at 90% and 89%, respectively. On the other hand, at least 21% of people in the City reported their settlements were without street-lights, which was significantly worse than Josburg’s 7% and Ekurhuleni’s 16%. In general, the report said, many people in the City expressed dissatisfaction about deteriorating levels of service, with the exception of public health services. “The decreasing trend in satisfaction is most evident with regard to safety and security services, which has dropped from 53% satisfied in 2011 to 41% in 2015/16,” the report said.