Traffic was seriously disrupted in Rosslyn on Thursday when thousands of EFF supporters marched from Ga-Rankuwa to Rosslyn Industrial Park. They braved the heatwave to embark on a 10km march aimed at putting pressure on the automobile companies operating in the area to give them jobs. Dressed in their red traditional colours, they gathered at the township's Cassandra Park at 9am, dancing and chanting Struggle songs. There was a heavy presence of police officers and the metro police when marchers headed to the industrial site. Their first stop was at Nissan, where they handed over a memorandum of demands to the company's representative. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video  Regional party chairperson Moaferika Mabogwana said the purpose of the march was to put pressure on big companies such as BMW, Afrit factory, Praga and SAB in Rosslyn to attend to complaints raised by workers. He said: "We have received numerous complaints about companies in Rosslyn and we didn't want to deal with them one by one. "We are going to enter all companies door to door to submit the memorandums." Workers allegedly complained to the EFF about the ill-treatment at the hands of managers and poor remuneration. Mabogwana said: "All the companies can afford to pay workers is a minimum wage of R12 500." To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video  He said the intention was to also drop CV's of unemployed people at targeted companies, believing they would be hired in seven days. They gave the companies an ultimutum to address their grievances within seven days. "We expect them to come back to us and tell us how many people they are going to be employing," Mabogwana said. The party demanded companies give shares to employees and create sustainable jobs. Deputy chairperson Legofi Leshabane said: "Our demands are very serious. They are about bread-and butter issues." Each company was asked to adopt a school and an early childhood development centre with clear commitment. Marchers demanded an end to outsourcing and all workers to be hired on a full-time basis with medical and pension benefits. Mabogwana said: "If they don't respond within seven days we are going to make Nissan a special project. The honeymoon is over. The time for capitalism is over." He promised workers that come next year they would be owning shares in Nissan. He said the party would before the end of this year pay a visit to AfriForum in Centurion.