A scuffle inside the courtroom culminated with five-month pregnant Nthabiseng Happiness Ramatsetse screaming in pain, saying she had been struck in her stomach. Ramatsetse was among the predominantly female group in court to support the Congolese head of God Is Love Ministries church. The scuffle occurred immediately after magistrate David Shikwambane adjourned proceedings to allow the National Prosecuting Authority to verify Emeka’s immigration status with the Department of Home Affairs before he could apply for bail. Shikwanbane had just taken a few steps out of the courtroom when he rushed back after hearing a woman crying for medical attention. He said he was disturbed by the occurrence because he had spent the morning maintaining peace and order. “As an official of the court, I did my role to ensure that there was peace and order during proceedings, but I am deeply concerned by what transpired. In fact, if you remember, I advised the community not to intimidate Emeka’s family, as the accused claimed that his family was being interfered with. I encouraged the gallery to allow justice to take its course and to remember that Emeka’s family was not the one accused of the crime,” he said. Ramatsetse was taken to another courtroom where she spoke through her pain, saying the prophet was being framed by people who had an agenda against him. She was taken away to seek medical attention. The demonstrations continued outside the court with members of the community declaring they wanted Emeka to be denied bail. They were joined by EFF members who formed part of the group that burnt the church’s main branch in Rethabiseng on Sunday. The crowd said Ramatsetse had faked her stomach pain for attention. They claimed she had attacked a community member who was trying to take photographs of the prophet. Matthew Gwezuvia, 25, who identified himself as Emeka’s son, said his father was targeted by South African priests who wanted to take over his church. He said the priests used to be members of Emeka’s church, but were struggling to recruit more people. “The people behind these allegations are jealous and they have a problem with foreign national prophets and pastors running successful churches in South Africa. My father did not rape or sexually assault anyone.” Bronkhorstspruit EFF regional convener Olivier Mogoru said it was time for the government and City of Tshwane to audit pastors who opened churches in expensive industrial areas. “Of course not every pastor or prophet is a bad person, but we will not be afraid to act against those taking advantage of our people.” The group who supported Emeka were insulted by people who accused them of being brainwashed. However, they fought back and told everyone that the prophet was a good and innocent man. According to them, even if the women were having sexual relations with him, nobody had the right to insult them.