Pretoria - Even though the state is not opposing bail for the school taxi driver who allegedly raped a 13-year-old Soshanguve learner they are pleading with the court to stop him from ferrying other children. Nkosinathi Kekana, 29, was arrested on Tuesday after he failed to drop the 13-year-old girl at school for two weeks. Kekana would allegedly drop other learners off and then proceeded to park outside a school in Pretoria west and allegedly raped the learner inside his kombi. According to the victim's statement she was allegedly threatened with a knife and a firearm he had in his possession at the time. He also informed the victim that her parents owed him R500, thereafter instructing her to take something of value in the house. Being ashamed and fearful for her life, the girl then took her father's cellphone worth R18 000 and gave it to Kekana. He then gave the girl R3 000 accompanied by a bogus letter allegedly from the school informing parents that she had been awarded the prize money for outstanding school work. However the parents became suspicious and contacted the school, only to be informed they knew nothing about a cash prize and in fact the girl had not been to school for two weeks. The parents then reported the matter to the police who arrested him on Friday after intervention from the local EFF branch. During his bail application in the Pretoria Magistrate's Court , state prosecutor Lazo Tshomela informed the court that they would not be opposing bail but wanted certain conditions attached. The first condition being to not directly or indirectly contact witnesses or the victims family. And secondly for the duration of the case for him to refrain from transporting any children. "As we understand he is self-employed he may delegate someone else to transport the children on his behalf." Kekana's legal representative, said his client intended to plead not guilty as he believed the state's case against him was weak. "I deny the allegations against me and the state's case is weak as they won't be able to present objective facts on the matter. I plead not guilty of the rape," Kekana said in his affidavit read out in court. And that being barred from transporting children would be prejudicial to him and strain his finances. "My client only makes R6 000 a month which he uses to support his 7-year-old child, his two siblings and an elderly father. If he has to delegate another person they will also have to be paid." "Putting such conditions on my client would be as though the state has already found him guilty." If anything he said his client had gone as far as handing himself over upon hearing that the police were looking for him. Magistrate Marley Mokoena rolled the matter over a day for a decision.