Pretoria - Beleaguered Tshwane City manager Dr Moeketsi Mosola is today expected to face another attempt by council to suspend him over allegations of misconduct. Executive Mayor Solly Msimanga told journalists on Wednesday at Tshwane House he would table a report in council asking it to issue notice of intention to suspend Mosola for bringing the City into disrepute. Mosola is accused of contravening the code of conduct for municipal staff members, which include failure to “perform functions of his office in good faith, diligently, honestly and in a transparent manner”. Msimanga said: “Therefore, in the interests of the residents of this city, I will take a report to council asking it to issue notice of intention to suspend the city manager on multiple allegations of misconduct that I have identified.” Allegations also related to Mosola’s failure to act in the best interests of the municipality and “not acting impartially and not treating all people, including staff members, equally without favour or prejudice”. “The city manager has failed to comply with the legal obligations relating to the employment relationships. The city manager has prejudiced his office, the administration and its efficiency,” Msimanga said. Mosola would also be in hot water for his public utterance in which he said a council-mandated probe into allegations of irregularities and possible misconduct against him was “a witch-hunt under the guise of an independent investigation”. The probe related to the awarding of a controversial tender to GladAfrica to assist in the rollout of infrastructure projects valued at R12billion. Mosola is likely to face the music for also referring to a preliminary report into the GladAfrica saga as “bogus”. He would further be taken to task for making several public attacks against Msimanga, MMCs and council. Msimanga said such attacks compromised the credibility and integrity of the office bearers, employees, and the City. “Of equal concern is the city manager has agitated to have a number of senior managers in the City suspended. It is alleged this has been because these managers have refused to ‘play ball’ in relation to GladAfrica. He has also used the City’s resources improperly more than once, including to hold press conferences to defame council and myself.” Mosola’s conduct was criticised for negatively impacting on service delivery. “I have carefully scrutinised the performance of the City in the final quarter of the last financial year and the first quarter of this one, and I am not satisfied with results which show a regression on the progress made since taking office,” Msimanga said. Pretoria News