Veronica Montwedi, founder of the Greater Lights Shelter, said she had for four years been working with the substance abusers. In that time she said she formed a mother and son-like relationship with the youngsters and often felt guilty when she failed to offer them a plate of food in the evening. Montwedi said she approached the Department of Social Development for assistance, but was told she needed to formalise the facility. She said she asked friends, family and her church to assist in finding a place. They managed to put together enough money for a deposit for the property, with rent of R12000 a month. Montwedi said she had hoped the department would assist in paying. However, that was not to be. “We owe the landlord R72000. All I wanted was to offer these children a place to sleep and get the help they need to beat their addiction.” Montwedi said the NPO used the house as a drop-in centre for the boys, with the rehabilitation journey being facilitated through programmes run by the University of Pretoria’s community-oriented substance use programme. She said she tried to contact the City of Tshwane, and councillors visited the centre earlier in the year to donate food and blankets. The councillors never returned. “We don’t have much, so the boys try to get by through odd jobs such as car-guarding or recycling. They buy their food, cook and clean up after themselves.” However, their time is about to be cut short, Montwedi said. “The property owner obtained a High Court order on November 12 for them to vacate the premises by tomorrow. I fear these boys, once out of here, will return to the substance addiction and crime route.” DA provincial spokesperson for Social Development Bridget Masango said: “All we wanted was for the MEC to visit the shelter and hear their plight and perhaps find out where the province can intervene. Most of the teenage residents there were found on the streets or referred to the shelter by desperate families. If the shelter closes down, it will leave these vulnerable young people with nowhere to go.” Social Development spokesperson Mbangwa Xaba said the department was not aware of the centre, and it had not been registered to offer treatment to addicts. He claimed the shelter’s founder had never approached the department to be registered. In this regard, the centre was considered to be illegal and ineligible for funding. “They should not be involved in any substance abuse treatment. The centre is illegal and should be shut.” He referred to the death of a 40-year-old man at a Magaliesburg rehabilitation centre that operated with a lapsed permit. “We worked hard with the community of Tshwane in addressing the scourge of substance abuse, especially the advent of the senseless and extremely health hazardous bluetooth nyaope phenomenon. “We are dismayed at Masango’s statements because they are out of tune with these achievements that we registered in the partnership we have with the City, local drug action committees and community development workers.” Health MMC Sakkie du Plooy said the City’s health department did not have a record of all shelters in the city. Furthermore, he said the City had no arrangement or set understanding to look after the interests of this particular shelter nor a formal agreement to provide them with any services. Du Plooy said the City had delegated clinics in Atteridgeville, Pretoria West and Sediba Hope Clinic in the CBD. Patients in shelters were welcome to make use of their free treatment services. He admitted the City had made donations to the shelter, but insisted it was as emergency relief and in no way meant they would serve the shelter regularly. Former nyaope and cocaine addict Mduduzi Skosana, 24, said he was fearful that the shelter which saved him from his six-year battle against drug abuse could be taken away. Skosana said that before being approached by Montwedi, or “Mama” as they affectionately called her, he had attempted to break free from his addiction without success. However, with continued support and encouragement from Mama, who came to visit them on the streets daily, he opted to give the shelter and rehabilitation a second chance. Skosana said during his time on the streets, he hated the life he was living as every cent he made as a car-guard went to supporting his habit and nothing else. “I feel human again; it’s not much, but at least here we can get a bath, healthy meal to eat and time to read and improve.”