Sengadi received a backlash after reports that she went to the rapper's home in Randpark Ridge accompanied by the police and replaced the locks. She also kicked HHP's son Leano out of the house and threw his clothes - including school uniform and books - on the pavement. This angered many, who started labelling her a drama queen and “evil”. They said she personified the stepmothers in Disney stories of old. Family spokesperson Nkululeko Ncana said Sengadi arrived at the home after midnight on Sunday. She also locked out a helper and her son, who had been living in the house since 2004. Ncana posted a picture with clothes, including what appeared to be a school uniform, placed on a chair, and a washing basket. “A case of breaking and entering has been opened with Honeydew Police Station. #HHP's son’s stuff is outside; among the stuff is his school uniform and books. #CustomaryWife sent some heavies with questionable hygiene habits and the cops saying we're trespassing,” Ncana wrote. Last week, Sengadi applied for an urgent interdict to halt the rapper's funeral proceedings, after the family stated she was not married to the late rapper. In court papers, Sengadi said she was Tsambo's lawful wife and his father Robert Tsambo must provide her with full details regarding the whereabouts of the body. She wanted to bury him in Joburg instead of Mahikeng where the family came from. Judge Ratha Mokgoathleng on Friday then recognised Sengadi as HHP's wife, but ruled that the funeral must proceed as HHP “was a national hero and deserves a decent funeral”. While people supported her during the court proceedings, it was a different case yesterday. @NkululekoNcana said: “People kept making her a hero when we told them this is not how customary marriage works. Her plan was never about just being a part of the funeral, she has a bigger play in mind. I can foresee her fighting tooth and nail to sink her claws in #HHP's estate.” @KKoloni tweeted: “This opportunist (Lerato) must be stopped, Customery Law is applied so inconsistent in SA and Lerato's reprieve is a temporary setback. Justice will prevail for Jabba's son.” @MC_Masoga:”Didn't she say on her court papers on Friday that she wants to bury #HHP in West Park cemetery so his son can visit him whenever he wants? Now this.” @rflwmplkng: “This #Lerato Sengadi chick didn't even give #HHP a child. But she wants to take take & take.” @NakampeBK said: “Lerato mara No wonder the family doesn't like her, o evil #HHP.