Kubayi-Ngubane was speaking at the Science, Technology and Innovation Summit hosted by a partnership between the government and the University of Pretoria. “The National Development Plan (NDP) correctly recognises that for our country to achieve the 2030 Goals, we must place science, technology and innovation at the centre of our developmental agenda. “Recently, the World Bank reiterated this view when it advised that South Africa needs to place more emphasis on science and innovation in order to achieve a sustainable growth trajectory,” the minister said. The involvement of all stakeholders, including business, labour, academia and government was vital and necessary for the country to successfully place science at the centre of development. “In fact, no government has ever achieved the necessary scientific and technological advances without the co-operation of one or a combination of these sectors. Our society has come to appreciate technological discoveries that emanate from the sciences without necessarily accepting the principles that underpin such discoveries. “For us to use science as a motive force for development, this needs to change. Society as a whole needs to embrace scientific research as an important element of creating a better world characterised by low unemployment, reduced poverty and inequality,” she added. She said there will always be fears that the fourth industry revolution would result in lower labour absorption, but that did not necessarily mean that there would be no employment opportunities as new opportunities would arise. At the event, the department's Director-General Dr Phil Mjwara also presented the white paper on science, technology and innovation to numerous stakeholders at the Future Africa Conference Centre. Mjwara said South African industry leaders ought not to fear the incoming fourth industrial revolution. He wanted them to embrace it and prepare for it properly and immediately. University of Pretoria vice-chancellor and principal Professor Cheryl de la Rey said: “It is very, very important for us to be a partner in this summit. “It looks at how we accelerate our level of engagement with the opportunities and some of the challenges that come with the fourth industrial revolution.” She said the university was a key pillar in mapping and enabling the future success of South Africa because it was the largest research institution of higher learning in the country, with more than 50000 students from across the continent.