This tropical island in the south-east of the country, with a gentle landscape dotted with bamboo and coconut palms, hot springs and beaches which draw tourists, and rivers where locals fish in traditional ways, has been singled out as a pilot for one of the government’s rural economic development initiatives as part of the Belt and Road project. This is the Hainan Boao Leching International Medical Centre, a stylish campus of 20km² on the Wanquan River system with a range of facilities bringing the most advanced medical technology and research from around the world to Hainan. Labelled a green-city project, the campus under construction offers frontier research, medical treatment, health management and recuperation care with everything from stem cell research to diagnostics, sports medicine, healthcare and beauty, and specialist treatment for the elderly. Important is the balance between development and protection of the environment so building is in usage-themed clusters on either side of the river, using the latest green technologies and leaving plenty of open space. The campus is scheduled to take five years to complete, create 40 000 jobs, and draw medical experts and medical tourists to its facilities. A tour gives an indication of the level of services and it is nothing like one’s traditional image of a hospital. The passageways are gently curved, the detail is elegant, staff are courteous, and one gets the sense of being in a five-star retreat, not a medical facility. There is a centre dedicated to traditional Chinese medicine, as well as styling studios for women and men. The laboratories have a viewing tunnel and the central courtyard is a calm place with water features and easy chairs. Despite plans to build Hainan into a modern metropolis with a Free Trade Port, efforts are being made to preserve its ancient history, and the media tour included visits to two traditional villages, maintained as tourist attractions. Here one can take a step back in time and learn from ancient inscriptions how to lead a good life, be studious and upstanding, watch coconut carving, try one’s hand at calligraphy, listen to the Qionghai ancient village folk band, or sample traditional food. It would be interesting to return to this area in a few years' time to see how the Belt and Road plan for Hainan is coming to fruition, hopefully without losing the charm of the place as it is today.