The commemoration of the first year of the gruesome deaths kick-started last week and families said they were still living with the painful reminder every day. On Saturday, members of the community gathered at the site of the deaths. Seven white crosses, wilted flowers, bloodstained ground and the Apollo light ring that fell on seven children in Block X on November 4, 2017, were a painful reminder of the tragedy. There were seven children playing in the area that day. Two survived the horror. As residents gathered in their numbers for the first commemoration, they said celebrating and remembering the young lives was hard. Kearabile Baloyi’s mother Georgina said that although she was moved by the support she got from her community, having to see the light still standing there reminded her of the gruesome deaths of the children. Baloyi said that since the death of her 12-year-old son, her life as she knew it ended, and only God knew the path forward. She said she was especially disappointed that nothing had been done to have the light removed as the families and community members had requested. “I thank our councillor and the community members who came from near and far to show their support. It’s hurting us that since that day, Executive Mayor Solly Msimanga has never bothered to come to listen to our pleas. “Everyone asks me how am I feeling, and all I can say is that I am not well. Having to live with this thing day in and out just keeps opening up the wound over and over.” The parents of the five children became very emotional and started crying when pupils from the three primary schools their children attended performed Vusi Nova’s hit Asphelelanga, calling out each of the five children’s names as they sang. Premier David Makhura, who was at the event, said he had a difficult time deciding what to say to the parents, but would rather tell them the truth. This, he said, was that he had no answers regarding what caused the horrific accident as the investigation by the Department of Labour was still not completed - something he said was disappointing. He said he believed the families would never be able to heal and find closure without the answers as to what had led to the children’s deaths. “I saw your tears last year when this tragedy happened, and I still see the tears now as your children’s schoolmates sang Asphelelanga. “We’re here to remember these children, but it still feels like a funeral. “Without knowing what happened, I know that even two years from now these families will still be crying. It’s not easy getting over the deaths of children who you as the parents felt as though you did not protect them.” Makhura apologised to the families for still not having the answers they so desperately needed. He said that although he met with Msimanga to inform him of the community’s request to have the light removed, he was dismayed nothing had been done about it. He could not remove the light as it was the function and responsibility of the municipality. He said if it had been a provincial matter like the Life Esidimeni tragedy, everything would have been done by now. He also took a swipe at Msimanga, saying had the incident taken place in the suburbs, the mayor would have been there every day to assist the affected families, but because it was in a township he had not even bothered to come to the aid of the community. “The current administration is taking our people for granted. Progress and development in Tshwane townships have stopped ” Msimanga said the removal of the light was being been delayed by incomplete investigations by the Department of Labour and the SAPS. He said that even though the City wanted to remove the light as the community had been pleading, their hands were tied. “It concerns me that it has taken these departments a year now and they have failed to finalise these reports. “I will write to both entities to fast track the release of the reports in order to get to the bottom of the matter, and also for the families and the community to seek closure,” he added.