While shoppers flooded the state-of-the-art mall, smaller groups of about 200 residents boycotted the opening and threatened to close the gates. Police had to use rubber bullets to dispel the group, which claimed the developers promised that 70% of the workers would be sourced locally, but that didn’t happen. The group said they submitted their CVs to management online and also at the offices prior to the opening, but there were workers who came as far as Soshanguve, Limpopo, Tembisa and Mabopane. However, chief executive of New Africa Development, Japie van Nie- kerk, said the protesting group was misled and misinformed by people who had secret agendas. He said criminal elements developed in the community as soon as construction of the mall started in January. Suddenly there were people who wanted to extort developers and demanded payments of sums as large as R350000 for protection, he said. “They did not get paid, and they became destructive.” Van Niekerk said even people from as far as Soshanguve were transported to attend the protest at the site, and given meals and drinks, before they were taken back to their homes. He said they had to get a court interdict for contractors to work in peace. Some of the protesters were angry because fake agents collected sums of money from them, promising to advance their applications in the recruitment processes. He said this was despite the fact that developers used media and social media platforms to warn people about the fake agents. He said they had asked locals to submit their CVs online. “We had in excess of 40000 applications for employment and we made sure that 100% of the CVs we took to our tenants (stores) were residents of Mamelodi. “Unfortunately, not everyone could be hired, but we believe we have a platform that created opportunities for employment for the people of Mamelodi. “In fact, there will still be more employment opportunities because this is a mall of international standards and more businesses will be opening until next year. The people who are protesting make up a small portion of unhappy people. “Thousands of shoppers and hundreds of newly-employed people are happy to be here today. We are also happy and as you can see the passages are full of shoppers,” said Van Niekerk. EFF councillor Terry Maboa said they were not happy and wanted more locals to be employed in the mall because they were the ones supporting the development.