The buses were pulled off the road after careful consideration and consultations between operator Tshwane Rapid Transit and its key stakeholders, said chief executive Sam Matebane. He said they had reached a tough decision to suspend all A Re Yeng bus operations in Mamelodi until further notice. This comes after persistent threats of vandalism by members of the community should their demands for the provision of additional buses and extra shifts not be met by the operator. Tshwane Rapid Transit said it was in possession of a number of demand letters from concerned groups and some taxi associations in Mamelodi. “However, it is regrettable that the entity is unable to accede to all these demands due to its operational framework and existing contractual obligations. In the interest of the safety of our commuters, staff as well as assets, we have had no alternative but to suspend operations in Mamelodi,” it said. Two weeks ago, the signing of a memorandum of understanding between the City of Tshwane and the Bus Operating Company was cancelled at the 11th hour. The service was then halted following threats that buses would be torched by passengers unhappy that they were always overcrowded. Metro Police had to escort the buses in and out of Mamelodi. The buses took over the Mamelodi route last year after Autopax bus service declined to renew its contract with the provincial government. Despite the City bringing in 45 buses as compared to the 13 buses provided by Autopax, this was not enough for the community. Last year Autopax pulled out of its contract with the Gauteng provincial government as it was not financially viable. About 8000 commuters from Mamelodi were forced to use alternative transport as a result yesterday. In the recent past, 19 buses have been set alight during political unrest in Mamelodi. MMC for Roads and Transport Sheila Lynn Senkubuge said the dispute was about fare hikes. “Mamelodi Transport Solution disadvantages them in that since they will be increasing their fares, there is a legitimate suspicion that most passengers will flock to the buses,” she said. She said Mamelodi taxi associations wanted the Tshwane Rapid Transit to increase prices with them on December 1 (tomorrow). The MMC added that they threatened to burn the buses since the operator would not accede to those demands.