Out beyond us, racehorses from a number of Gauteng’s best known stables are on the tracks; and on a weekday morning it hardly feels that one is midway between Sandton and Pretoria, so peaceful is it. The Matsoses have worked hard to get the 150-seater restaurant running smoothly ahead of their first big event, a Gallop for Hope charity event on December 2 (11.30am for noon). This is a mini race day to raise funds for the Lighthouse baby shelter, a charity the pair have supported since they started dating many years ago. The gallop will give an indication of the potential of the Bull Ring as a countryside lifestyle hub with “rugged” good food, craft beer and other drinks, a farmers’ market, pop-up fashion, entertainment, fun runs, cycling challenges, horse riding and other events that promote a healthy outdoor family lifestyle, says Celeste. “We envisage a lively place, where people can have fun in a relaxed outdoor setting away from the city,” she says. One of the things that drew them to the property is the sheer size of it, which provides flexibility to use the space in a variety of ways the restaurant is suitable for corporate and celebratory events, one can relax with a beer on the terrace, unpack a picnic on the lawns, or host a party inside the track itself the possibilities are endless. The beer on tap is Bullish, a beer co-created by Tumelo among his various business interests. He started out with a learnership at Liberty Life, followed by a stint at Old Mutual, studying for an MBA, and starting his own company, Matgal Capital. Supporting the Bull Ring is Larry Wainstein, chairman of the Racing Association which owns Randjesfontein, who will be keeping a watchful eye to ensure activities complement the facilities and do not disrupt the hundreds of prized racehorses and their daily training routines. He believes the Matsoses’ plans will help to promote horse racing among people who do not usually go to race meetings or think horse racing is “only about betting”, and get them interested in and supporting the sport through fixtures planned as an add-on to the existing horse racing calendar. On our visit we were given a stable tour by Adam Azzie, a fourth-generation trainer and the son of Michael Azzie - who sees the potential benefit of the Bull Ring in bringing people to the course where they can get a sense of horse racing. Even Tumelo, who “knows nothing about horses”, said just being around the beautiful racehorses piqued his interest and, who knows, he’s tempted to own one one day. * The Bull Ring is open from 7am to 5pm weekdays, 7pm on Sunday and 9pm on Saturday - or by arrangement for special events. To book or find out more, email info@thebullringsa.co.za.