Jansen said the deadly disease had given her the confidence to speak up and raise awareness. The Eersterust resident was among people who participated in a World Diabetes Day Walk at Route 21 Corporate Park in Centurion yester- day. Jansen said diabetes had robbed her of her grandmother as well as her mother, who died at 47, and possibly now her sister, who has lost sight in her right eye due to having renal failure at 38. In addition, she has to go for dialysis three times a week. According to statistics, diabetes is the number one leading cause of natural death of women in South Africa. And Jansen said diabetes was one of the worst silent killers. “When my mother died, everything basically stopped. The doctors could not do anything for her, and unfortunately, my sister is waiting to get a kidney. “I do not know when that is going to happen, but having to go to get dialysis three times a week is so draining and stressful that sometimes you forget. She is a parent and her children get the short end of it.” She described the horror she felt for her sister, who had to sit for almost six hours in a machine. She said it was very straining sometimes to watch her go through the different stages of it. She said she hoped her story inspired people to go for screenings regularly, and encouraged them to adopt a healthy lifestyle before it was too late. Tuberculosis South Africa Project’s Gregory Jagwer said diabetes and tuberculosis (TB) often went together; diabetics easily got tuberculosis because of a weaker immune system. “The relationship between diabetes and TB should not be underestimated; it is a double tragedy for a person who has TB and who has then to manage diabetes.” Jagwer said the aim of the walk was to raise awareness to let people take responsibility for their health. The symptoms of diabetes include increased hunger, numbness and tingling of feet, sores that did not heal, unexplained weight loss, blurred vision, fatigue, increased thirst and urination. To prevent loss of weight, diabetics should exercise regularly, stop smoking and eat healthily. Symptoms of TB include coughing for more than two weeks, weight loss, fever and night sweats. Workers at the park and employees of Tuberculosis South Africa Project joined in for a 30-minute walk in the complex to raise awareness of diabetes. November is National Diabetes Month and free screening services for diabetes and TB are available at various outlets nationwide.