Political parties, Not In My Name SA and other civic organisations have vowed to bring the CBD to a standstill in support of the 7-year-old girl. Social Development MEC Nandi Mayathula-Khoza was also expected to attend the court proceedings. “The MEC is attending the court case as the custodian of children in Gauteng and in support of the family,” her office said yesterday. Tshwane metro police department spokesperson Senior Superintendent Isaac Mahamba said they would together with the SAPS deploy officers around the city centre as various organisations were expected to picket and protest outside the court. The action could affect nearby streets. Mahamba advised motorists to avoid certain streets and use alternative roads. Mahamba said the picketers would be dropped off at 8am on Francis Baard Street. Their buses would be parked at the old Putco depot between Struben and Bloed streets, near Marabastad. Francis Baard Street, between Sophie de Bruyn and Bosman, would be closed completely from 8am until 3pm. Church Square would also be monitored for possible gatherings. When the Dros rape suspect appeared in court over a month ago, #NotInMyNameSA, #TheTotalShutDown, the EFF, DA, ANC, Bikers Against Child Abuse, Nelson Mandela Children’s Foundation and Black First, Land First all gathered outside the court. At the time, advocate Sanet Jordaan asked for a postponement in order to bring an application to obtain the accused’s cellphone for forensic downloading. Reports on social media indicated that the accused had been receiving preferential treatment from Correctional Services officials, who were allegedly giving him cellphones and smuggling women into his cell. However, the department said: “There is no such thing; it is not possible for officials to do that. That is fake news.” At least R137 581 has been donated to the victim’s family by crowdfunding platform BackaBuddy to pay for the child’s therapy sessions. The campaign was set up by concerned citizens, and one of the donors was believed to have contributed R31018.97