Chief among their grievances was the alleged brutality by Metro Police officers. They claimed City police confiscated their stock by violent means. Traders even had to fork out bribes to stop Metro Police from harassing them, they said. The disgruntled informal traders from Marabastad, led by the Unified South African Traders, marched to Tshwane House to hand over a memorandum of grievances. The protest action was supported by the ANC with its regional chairperson Dr Kgosi Maepa at the forefront. “The DA municipality needs to start taking traders more seriously. They play a pivotal role in the economy,” he said. Chairperson of the traders Vincent Matjeng said they had been trying to work with the municipality as many of their grievances had been going on for years. “Informal workers play an important role in the economy. We are marching to bring awareness to these issues, as the City needs to cater for informal traders whose livelihoods depend on their trade.” Matjeng said the work they did was for survival, but it could also be sustainable. But while en route to deliver the memorandum, protesters met with members of Tshwane Barekisi Forum protesting at the Gauteng High Court, Pretoria. The traders had tried to obtain an interim order against the Metro Police interdicting them from intimidating and harassing them. The traders had packed the court, while others protested outside. Their message was that they wanted a fairer licensing regime for informal traders. Both parties agreed the by-laws in this regard should be revisited. The traders said that the terms and conditions of these licences were unfair and did not benefit them. One of their gripes was that their trading hours were limited to starting late in the mornings and stopping early in the afternoons. The City said this was not true as the licences allowed the traders to trade from 6am up to 6pm, when the cleaners came into the city and other areas to clean up. The application by the informal traders was dismissed as the judge said they did not make out a case for an interdict. Falaza William Baloyi, one of the leaders, said especially old people were suffering as they had made a living from informal trading for decades. “I feel like someone has murdered my soul. We are going to hold a meeting to plan the way forward, but as I see it, we have to appeal. This is my livelihood. Like the others here, I have to put food on the table. We have to appeal as we have nothing to lose, but all to gain. Another trader Debbie Masako said Metro Police were still harassing them on a daily basis while the streets were filled with nyaope addicts. “We are just trying to make an honest living. The cops take our goods and break down our stalls. When we fetch our goods, there are much less than what we initially had,” she said. All they wanted was a licence to trade, she said. When they got to Tshwane House, MMC for Health and Social Development Sakkie du Plooy accepted the memorandum and said they would look at it and consider the time frame of 10 days in which to respond.