DURBAN – Industry commentators in the online retail space have said the expectation is for this Black Friday to be a big one. The Black Friday sales weekend starts on November 23 where retailers will be offering off-the-charts savings across all retail categories. Loot.co.za chief executive Gary Hadfield said: “Based on discussions with my peers and industry commentators in the online retail space, the expectation is for this Black Friday to be a big one. 2018 has been a tough trading period for all retailers and I expect competition this Black Friday to be a fierce.” During this time, shoppers can get very competitive in their quest for the best deal. Here are some top tips from captains of the industry: Tip 1: If you are shopping online, set your alarm for 11:30pm the night before Many sales start as the clock strikes 12  so make sure you have data and your Wi-Fi is not past its cap. Get into bed early and set a few alarms. By the time the rest of the world wakes up you have done your shopping and be catching some restful winks before heading to work Tip 2: Teamwork makes the dreamwork You and your friends can help each other out on Black Friday. The person who is online first buys what the group needs and then the group pays the person back. Or you and your friends can get together and decide which site each one will handle the buying for. Tip 3: Create a wish list so you can checkout ASAP on the day The prices may vary on goods for Black Friday, but the goods will already be there. Go online, make your wish list in advance and then, when the sale begins, go to your list, see which items are marked down enough and press ‘checkout’ to beat your shopping competitors to the bargain. Tip 4: Do your homework Get your hands on as many newsletters and flyers as you can. Like the Facebook pages and Twitter feeds of all your beloved retailers. Keep an eye on their bargains closely. From early November, retailers will start releasing their Black Friday weekend specials. Start planning as early as possible and create a plan of action. Tip 5: Have a plan of action on Black Friday Start with the online shopping early and then go to the physical shops once you’ve done the calm and peaceful online shopping. Tip 6: Make sure your details are up-to-date If you are shopping online, you won’t want to be messing around updating details as everyone around you is checking out what should have been your goods. It is worth logging into the sites you love before Black Friday and checking your delivery and payment details are 100 percent accurate. Tip 7: Get the app Download the app for your favourite online retailers early. This will allow you to have a look at their specials much faster and they will also send you push notifications of the big discounts to keep an eye out for. Also, some retailers offer app-only deals. Tip 8: Check in advance if you can return your purchases Most outlets, both online and physical, will accept returns for Black Friday purchases, but this is not guaranteed. Check out the terms and conditions in advance to make sure that any purchases made ‘in the moment’ can be returned. Tip 9: Set a budget Decide beforehand what you plan to spend on the Black Friday sales and stick to it. You could quickly find yourself shopping for Christmas 2018, 2019 and 2020 if you are not careful. Tip 10: Beware the cheapest price Super low-price doorbuster specials draw people in with visions of savings, but these sets might not be worth the price. Sometimes too good to be true is just that. BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE