The Labour Department said nothing was stopping the City from removing the light, all the metro needed to do was ask. As for the final report, department spokesperson Mishack Magakwe said the investigations had been finalised with recommendations. The only challenges the department was facing were delays in obtaining the post-mortem results. “The department had not prohibited the City from removing the light; we finalised the site inspection in 2017,” he said. “The City is responsible for the implementation of the request to remove the light. "The only time they could not do so was on the day of the accident as inspectors first had to first go through the site,” Magakwe said. The City could have dismantled the light and stored it in a safe place where inspectors could still access it, if need be. Similar to the Grayston bridge collapse in Sandton, no material could be removed from the scene. But once the inspectors had completed their task, the material was moved to a safe place for storage. The department had together with the SAPS been blamed for lack of progress in the investigation into the tragedy. Both entities were tasked with probing what caused the heavy metal ring of the light to crash down on the children playing there on that fateful day. During the first year commemoration of the deaths on November 10, the general feeling in the community was that the presence of the light was a painful reminder of the tragedy. The families were joined by Premier David Makhura in lambasting the City for the fact that the light remain intact as a painful reminder of the tragedy. The SAPS, meanwhile, confirmed that it had completed its investigation, but the findings were to remain under wraps for now. SAPS spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Lungelo Dlamini said the cases had been transferred to the inquest court. “Unfortunately, we cannot give a directive to the City to remove a light. “But we know that the inquest court will start procedures to establish whether the incident was an accident or a criminal act. “From there an announcement could then be made on what happens to the light,” he said.