It has been revealed that on the eve of the first council to consider the investigation into GladAfrica and the suspension of Mosola, the mayor received a text message, allegedly from the EFF, with an unsigned motion of no confidence. In it, the mayor was warned that if he went ahead with the investigation of GladAfrica, he would face the motion. Yesterday, Msimanga, whose DA-led coalition government came into being with support from the EFF struck by the parties nationally, could not confirm or deny receiving the message. Insiders in the City said staff morale had taken a knock as a result of the impasse between Msimanga and Mosola, which is rooted in the Glad- Africa scandal. “The city manager held a media briefing flouting the City’s communication policy and the code of conduct. He basically misconducted himself by having a media briefing at which he insulted all and sundry, including council. He then took to Facebook and insulted the mayor and the governing party for two consecutive days. This is unprecedented,” a City employee told the Pretoria News last night. Another insider referred to the 2017/18 Quality of Life Survey which found that the City of Tshwane performed poorly in terms of delivery of basic services. “Imagine Tshwane lagging behind Ekurhuleni when we have the second biggest budget after Joburg; it is about time (DA leader Mmusi) Maimane takes the bull by the horns. From where we stand, it appears Maimane and the DA fear losing Tshwane and Joburg so much should they act against Mosola and subsequently lose the support of the EFF.” And yesterday the Pretoria News also learnt that Mosola was no longer participating in the “service delivery war room” convened every Friday morning, supposedly to be headed by him and Msimanga. Mosola has also been accused of delaying the appointment of service providers, which in turn negatively affected service delivery and turn-around time. Spokesperson for DA Gauteng leader John Moodey, Mabine Seabe said the party was against all allegations of corruption and was satisfied with the work that the DA-led council was doing with regards to the Glad- Africa matter. Seabe said the DA was not worried about losing Tshwane, and possibly Joburg, should Mosola be axed and the EFF withdrew its support. “The people of Tshwane and Joburg know the good work we have done in speeding up quality service delivery; opening access to jobs and fighting corruption. “So if we lose these cities for taking a principled approach, we will walk away knowing that we put the people first. Should it come that we lose these metros, we will continue fighting for the people from the opposition benches. The EFF will have to answer for handing the metros back to the failing ANC.” Seabe said the DA had a duty to the people of Tshwane and Joburg, the Municipal Finance Management Act, and the Constitution. “We will not sideline these for the sake of political expediency. We will never bargain when it comes to the fight against corruption.” He disclosed that the DA leadership had discussed Mosola’s position with its EFF counterpart. “As a coalition government we consult extensively with coalition and voting partners. When we formed these governments, we all agreed, inter alia, that we would act against all allegations of corruption, and it is on this basis that we are acting (against Mosola). “Corruption steals from our people, especially people oppressed by poverty. We would be undermining our contract with the people if we did not act on the allegations.” Seabe added the party was satisfied with the actions that Msimanga had taken within the powers afforded to him. “Equally so, our members of the Tshwane council have supported him at every turn. We must understand that there are processes and decisions that council must take; not just the mayor - all necessary actions, some are still afoot - have been taken to hold the city manager accountable.” EFF regional leader Moaferika Mabogoane said the party supported a council decision that there must be an investigation into the GladAfrica issue. On claims that Mosola enjoyed the support of the EFF and that the party would vote Msimanga out should the city manager lost his job, he said: “We don’t entertain shebeen gossips; we deal with facts there is no city manager who enjoys our support. As far as we know there’s no one who is untouchable; we just need facts before us in order to argue for council to take necessary action.” See Page 3