The Supreme Court of Appeal has given the go-ahead for the driver to appeal against his murder conviction. This was third time lucky for Lungisa Gwababa, who has been in jail since August 2015, when he and his seven co-accused were convicted of murder. Each received a 15-year jail sentence. Gwababa is now the fifth accused in the high-profile trial to be granted leave to appeal following a bitter legal fight. It was also third time lucky for former officers Meshack Malele, Sipho Ngobeni, Bongani Kolisi and Linda Sololo earlier this year when they received permission from the Supreme Court to appeal against their convictions. Gauteng High Court, Pretoria, Judge Bert Bam, who convicted them on the doctrine of common purpose, turned down their initial application for leave to appeal. They then approached the Supreme Court directly, where two judges also refused them permission. But former Judge President Lex Mpati earlier in the case of the four other former SAPS officers said that in his view there was a reasonable prospect that they could succeed with their application on appeal. The four were then granted leave to appeal before three judges of the High Court in Pretoria. Acting Judge President of the Supreme Court Judge Mandisa Maya also referred the matter of Gwababa back to that court after he was initially refused leave to appeal. Five judges concluded that Gwababa also stood a reasonable chance of succeeding with his appeal. One of the issues the Supreme Court questioned was whether all the accused should have been convicted on the doctrine of common purpose. The accused were all dismissed from the SAPS following a disciplinary hearing. They were linked to the events on February 26, 2013, during which Macia was dragged behind a police van. A video of the incident made by a bystanders went viral. Macia had been arrested near a taxi rank in Daveyton by police for illegally parking his taxi and causing a traffic jam. Handcuffs placed on him became attached to a steel bench in the back of the police van. The vehicle drove off after the police claimed they feared a threatening crowd which had gathered. The vehicle drove off with Macia still attached to a bench in the back of the police vehicle, with part of his lower body on the ground behind it. He was dragged behind the vehicle for about 200m en route to the Daveyton police station. On arrival at the police station he was unconscious and placed in a holding cell. He died a few hours later. It was found he was assaulted while in the holding cells by some officers. Gwababa earlier testified he had no idea Macia was being dragged behind the van he drove to the police station. He did not look in the rear mirror as he believed Macia was inside the van at the time. When he was about 200m down the road, his colleagues behind him were flashing their vehicle’s lights indicating that he must stop. Only then did he realise Macia had fallen out of the vehicle.