The Presidency confirmed yesterday afternoon that the embattled Gigaba tendered his resignation to President Cyril Ramaphosa as pressure mounted for him to be fired. The official opposition added to this pressure, taking Ramaphosa to court to have the appointment of Gigaba and Minister for Women Bathabile Dlamini reviewed and set aside. Ramaphosa’s spokesperson Khusela Diko confirmed that he had accepted Gigaba’s resignation. “The president has accepted the resignation and expressed his appreciation for Minister Gigaba’s long standing service to the government and people of South Africa.” Transport Minister Blade Nzimande will act as Minister of Home Affairs until a permanent appointment is made. Gigaba’s resignation came a day before Ramaphosa was to announce what disciplinary action he would take after Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane found that Gigaba had violated the Executive Ethics Code and the Code for Ethical Conduct and Disclosure of Members Interests for Assembly for speaking “untruth under oath”. “Minister Gigaba indicated in his letter of resignation that he was stepping aside for the sake of our country and the movement to which he belongs further to relieve the president from undue pressure and allow him to focus on improving the lives of the people of South Africa and for him to do the best he can to serve the country and save it from this economic meltdown,” Diko added. Gigaba has in recent weeks faced troubles including the Constitutional Court rejecting his application for leave to appeal a court ruling which found he had lied under oath in the Fireblade Aviation matter. He was also seen in a nude video, which he said was meant for his wife. He apologised for it. The DA’s Haniff Hoosen said Gigaba has done the right thing by resigning. “It’s a pity he did not do it much earlier to save South Africa from embarrassment and the wastage of money,” Hoosen said. “I’m glad he resigned and wish him well, but the next step should be his resignation as an MP,” he added. The EFF also welcomed his resignation, saying a court found him to have lied under oath. “His stubbornness to remain in office despite the undeniable evidence against him regarding the Fireblade Airport saga and his blatant disregard for the rule of law have made him a dishonourable public representative and have clearly illustrated that he does not have the interests of the people of South Africa at heart,” EFF spokesperson Mbuyiseni Ndlozi said. He also said the party noted Ramaphosa had requested Nzimande to act as Minister of Home Affairs. “The recycling of old and tired cadres of the ANC speaks to the heart of the bankruptcy of the party and its leadership. We hope moving forward the president will find a young, fresh and incorruptible mind to lead in this role,” Ndlozi said. IFP chief whip Narend Singh said Gigaba had no choice but to go. “As the IFP we are not surprised. He had no choice. There was a lot of pressure from the president because he had to fire him anyway over the Fireblade matter,” Singh said. Political analyst Professor Mcebisi Ndletyana said Gigaba faced a bleak future in politics, adding that his waning support base within the ANC and his association with the Guptas would make it difficult for him to bounce back. Additional reporting by Bheki Mbanjwa