The centre is a collaborative project of the Javett Foundation and the university, and creates a space unlike any other in the capital city for the curation, exhibition and conservation of art. The design is by Pretoria architect Pieter Mathews and construction started early in 2017, with the opening scheduled for March 2019. Javett-UP will house two permanent collections. They are the university’s Mapungubwe collection - which includes the famed gold rhino - and the Javett collection of modern South African art, on loan to the centre. The main building has two large gallery spaces which can be configured in various ways to accommodate art exhibitions from South Africa, Africa and the world, and is linked via a bridge to the main campus on the northern side of Lynnwood Road. The bridge - with its concrete cladding with cut-outs recalling traditional shweshwe print design - serves more than a practical purpose of linking the Javett-UP to the university; it is another gallery space. Accessing the Javett-UP bridge from main campus will be via the historic Tukkies Avenue - along which are situated the Old Arts and Old Merensky library buildings, the theology department with the university’s original gates and Edoardo Villa sculptures - and a new modern square under construction between the departments of architecture and visual arts. Below this will be another exhibition space, this one for student and university exhibitions. The linking bridge is symbolic of the link between “town and gown”, explains Javett-UP director Christopher Till. His hope is that Javett-UP will attract visitors from the city and beyond to its exhibitions and programmes. Aside from the galleries, the centre will have a small auditorium for lectures, a restaurant and gift shop, offices, a secure receiving bay and conservation studio. The collaboration of the private art centre and university offers an exciting contribution to education for Till, who was previously director of the Apartheid Museum. UP will - with a grant from the Mellon Foundation - offer a masters degree programme from next year in the conservation of Pretoria’s tangible cultural heritage in conjunction with Javett-UP.