The young golfer, who recently finished fourth in the US Kids Golf European Championships, eats, breathes and sleeps the sport. And his triumph at the international championships was just the cherry on the top, as he has already bagged more than 20 trophies since he started playing golf in 2014. He qualified for the championships after coming second in the US Kids World Tournament qualifiers in 2017. The Tyger Valley College pupil from Silver Lakes, east of Pretoria, has the luxury of living near a golf course, and dedicates an hour each day after school and four hours every weekend to the sport. He revealed that he doesn't plan on studying further after matric. He just wants to play golf. The reserved Zinan, who kept smiling during an interview with the Pretoria News yesterday, did not say much more than speak about his love for the sport. “Golf is just a great game for me. I enjoy playing it. My dad took me to practice once, and that’s how it all started. I really love it.” He also spoke about his participation in the European Championships last month. “It was cold there. I did well but on the last day things changed. For the first two days, I was leading and on the last day I just dropped the ball; I think it was because of pressure.” His mother, Lesego Maimane, said it all started four years ago with what she called a “fun game”. “Three months into playing golf in 2014, we saw that he had potential,” Lesego said. Zinan started playing in tournaments in 2016, which earned him a trip overseas. He was one of the many kids who participated in the US Golf Kids World Championships. “To us, it was an achievement because he was only three months into the game. Also, he outshone boys who had been there way before him. “He came out in the top 40, which was good because he had only been competing for a few months. I mean, lots of kids compete from all over the world, so it was an achievement for us,” his proud mother said. In all the Junior Africa Challenges he’s ever taken part in, Zinan was always in the top three. Apart from his excellence in golf, he loved playing soccer, hockey and tennis;  but golf has remained his first love. He was also an “A” pupil, his mother said. She said all his peers were intimidated by her son, adding that they always asked if “he would be participating” whenever there was a tournament.