This comes after a woman, 20, turned to the Equality Court after allegedly being terrorised by a group of now former pupils for wearing the school cap. Department spokesperson Steve Mabona said they and the school will look at its code of conduct with the possibility of reviewing it. It was important to deal with the culture at some schools as the abuse of especially women could not be promoted. The woman, now studying law at the University of Pretoria, told the Equality Court she was allegedly threatened on social media by about 26 Affies pupils in 2015 for wearing the school cap. The cap may not be worn by anyone other than alumni. The picture, posted on Snapchat, was met with an outcry by the pupils. They took to WhatsApp to vent their anger towards her. Among others, the group said they'd “f*** her up” for wearing the cap. The woman, who may not be identified as she was a minor at the time and some of the threats was of a sexual nature, is demanding an apology. She and her parents were not happy with the school “simply giving them a slap on the wrist” - three detention sessions and some having their privileges removed. The woman and her parents also wanted an undertaking from the school that it would educate its pupils about gender equality and gender-based violence. Apart from this she also claimed R100000 from the boys who traumatised her. A statement on the school’s Facebook completely distanced the school from the alleged actions of the boys and any form of violence, especially against women and children. “This behaviour is strongly rejected. The school regards this matter in a very serious light and is handled by the governing body and management at the highest level in consultation with a top law team appointed by the school," it said. The court ordered that the former pupils could be notified of the court acion via WhatsApp, notices put at the school and in newspaper as Lawyers for Human Rights only had their telephone numbers on WhatsApps. Santa Bornman of LHR said some came forward willing to settle the matter. Three respondents will  fight the matter in court.