Moses died as police officers threw tear gas to disperse the crowds of residents who had blocked off the roads with burning tyres and rocks to vent their anger and frustration at constant electricity cut-offs, high rates and taxes, water restrictions and flawed RDP processes. Nkomo met the Moses family members on Wednesday and expressed condolences on behalf of the City. He also pledged that the municipality would assist them as required. “The untimely passing of Moses is testimony to the devastating consequences of violent protest action, not only to our infrastructure but most importantly to human life,” Nkomo said. The City respected the right of individuals to protest but maintained that such protests must be done in a sensible manner without putting the lives of fellow community members in danger, he said. “The DA-led administration is responsive and citizen-oriented," Nkomo said. "This means we listen and attend to all issues raised by communities regardless of race, gender or geographical location.” Nkomo said he had convened a meeting last week with City officials and some township leaders, who included elders, a ward councillor and young people's representatives. “Emanating from this meeting, the City has set up teams at the Civic Centre for individuals needing urgent assistance with rudiments ranging from meter reading and invoicing, property rates, credit control and debt collection,” he said. Residents have been encouraged to visit the Eersterust Civic Centre to address their service delivery concerns, starting from now until Sunday at 9am. Nkomo said officials were in the area attending to normal urban management and billing issues and the clearing of debris following the protests. “Illegal electricity connections which overload the grid are among the causes of power outages. "These will be removed to ensure security of supply. A task team involving the City and community representatives will be established to ensure all issues are addressed.” Nkomo said he had held four community meetings with residents this year to address Integrated Development Planning, drugs and a myriad other issues affecting the community. “I will again, on June 29, visit the area to provide feedback to the community on commitments undertaken during our various meetings, including this latest one, and provide feedback on how far the City is in addressing service delivery issues,” Nkomo said. His visit was made after Human Settlements MEC Uhuru Moiloa went to the area on Sunday to visit the family and listen to grievances raised by the community regarding service delivery.