“The ethics committee met today and decided to refer the matter of Manana and Bongo to the sub-committee for further processing,” joint committee on ethics and members’ interests co-chairperson, Amos Masondo, said yesterday. Masondo said the ethics sub-committee dealt with disciplinary hearings of MPs, who are accused of flouting the code of conduct. “Upon completion of their work, the sub-committee will compile a report to be tabled before Parliament,” he said. Manana recently landed in hot water after his domestic worker, Christine Wiro, opened a case of assault, and withdrew it the same evening, at the police station last month. There have also been counter-claims of bribery. The incident attracted criticism, with National Assembly Speaker Baleka Mbete advising the ethics committee to investigate the accusations and make a recommendation. Manana is no stranger to controversy. He was forced to resign as deputy minister last year, after he was caught on camera assaulting women at a club. The court subsequently found him guilty and fined him R100000 or 12 months' imprisonment. Bongo's troubles started when allegations surfaced last year that he tried to bribe evidence leader in the inquiry into state capture, advocate Ntuthuzelo Vanara. He was axed from the cabinet by President Cyril Ramaphosa, as former president Jacob Zuma confirmed that he was looking into the bribery allegations against him. This was after Mbete had referred an affidavit by the evidence leader to Zuma. Neither Manana nor Bongo could be reached for comment. Masondo said the ethics sub-committee was expected to be ready with with its report at the beginning of July. Asked about pending disciplinary cases of other MPs, he said the committee would hold a media briefing on Tuesday to clarify the matters on MPs who had flouted the code of conduct over the years. Masondo said they would also make public the MPs' register of interests. The code of ethics applies to all MPs and is aimed at creating public trust and confidence in them, and to protect the integrity of Parliament. If an MP is found to have breached the code of conduct, the ethics and members’ interests committee can recommend a reprimand in the House, a fine not exceeding the value of 30 days’ salary or a reduction of salary or allowances, for a period not exceeding 30 days. It can also recommend the suspension of certain privileges or an  MP’s right to a seat in parliamentary debates or committees for a period not exceeding 30 days. “In a breach considered minor by the committee, the member may be ordered to rectify the breach and be counselled on the code."