Drug users, vagrants and taxi drivers gave Msimanga a piece of their minds as he circled the CBD picking up litter. Msimanga confiscated numerous packets of nyaope, crack pipes and syringes from drug users who were sleeping along Lillian Ngoyi Street. They didn’t take kindly to that and hurled insults at Msimanga, but these seemed to bounce off the mayor as he carried on confiscating items along Helen Joseph, Lilian Ngoyi, Pretorius and Central streets. Taxi drivers were also not spared Msimanga’s wrath; he told them about their reckless driving, aggressive behaviour and hogging of the shoulder lanes. One by one, the taxis scrambled as Msimanga walked past. They too hurled foul comments and gestures at him. Msimanga, along with volunteers, business partners, sponsors and City of Tshwane staff were on a clean-up campaign. They were met with used syringes, beer bottles, takeaway packets littering the streets and an unbearable stench of urine. Some vagrants were sleeping on the corner of Brown and Lillian Ngoyi streets where they had made makeshift homes. Piles of litter and rubble lined the street, and unregulated traffic and pedestrians passed along the street. The youths, some shabbily dressed, huddled around Msimanga. They explained that they wanted to go to a rehabilitation centre, while others asked him to create more jobs for them; others just stared at him. Msimanga said he was encouraged and inspired to find sustainable solutions to all the challenges he had been exposed to, especially in Brown Street. He said he had listened to the concerns and frustrations expressed by informal traders and drug addicts. In the end, a vehicle from the City arrived at Brown Street to take some of the addicts to a rehabilitation centre. The Tswelopele launch was aimed at commemorating World Environment Day (tomorrow) and reminding all citizens of the city that it is on the agenda. Msimanga said the campaign focused on encouraging volunteerism in the city when it came to safeguarding and protecting the natural environment. He said this was not a once-off initiative and similar clean-ups would be held in all municipal regions. “The intention is that on the first Saturday of each month we will be having Tswelopele clean-up campaigns in different locations in the city,” he said. Volunteers also distinguished between wet and dry waste and separated non-recyclable material and recyclable material. Msimanga said the initiative was one that was close to his heart because when he grew up he was taught that one must never use poverty as an excuse to be dirty and live among filth because cleanliness was next to godliness. The Capital City Business Chamber was a key partner, while Standard Bank provided waste bags, gloves and water for the day. PlasticsSA has also supported the campaign with bags. The Wastegroup provided a waste truck which will be roaming the streets supporting the different teams in collecting waste and transporting it to a recycling facility. Absa, Avbob, Old Mutual and the Morning Star Express Hotel also supported the clean-up.