An independent inquiry into the matter - led by Advocate Vincent Maleka - found no evidence of racism on the night when Willemse downed his mic and walked off the set at SuperSport, following a Super Rugby match between the Lions and Brumbies. Willemse, a former Springbok wing, said he had felt patronised and undermined by fellow in-studio colleagues Nick Mallett and Naas Botha. While Mallett and Botha were cleared of racism by the Maleka inquiry, Willemse is adamant the incident was rooted in racism. He opted to not take part in the inquiry because, according to his lawyer, Nqobizitha Mlilo, the process was flawed and the forum inappropriate. “The individual interviews that were conducted by Advocate Maleka could not be tested ... and that is not an appropriate process to follow,” Mlilo said yesterday. “To participate in that process would be fruitless ... there is no value in the findings without Mr Willemse's evidence. The only place where we can test the evidence, and cross-examine the individuals versions, is at the Equality Court and we are in the process of finalising our documentation.” Mlilo, however, made it clear that Willemse was open for discussions with SuperSport and that would determine their next step. “Ashwin is an independent contractor and not an employee of SuperSport and his participation in the inquiry was voluntary from the beginning. He is, however, willing to speak to them and if the process yields something positive then that will be the end of the matter. If nothing comes of it then we will go ahead and approach the Equality Court.” Mlilo said the appointment of Maleka to look into the incident - days after Willemse had claimed racism was at play on May 19 - had been done to “clean up” the situation. SuperSport chief executive Gideon Khobane and Multichoice boss Calvo Mawela had stated publicly two days after the May 19 incident - following an internal review and interviews with all the role-players - that there was no evidence of racism that led to the incident. However, Maleka notes in his report that the statement the two executives put out, with their finding of “no racism”, was objected to, in part, by Willemse. For the next three days Willemse met with Khobane and Mawela and he indicated that there was racism that led to the incident, and then it was decided to institute the review. While the interviews done by Maleka led him to conclude that there was no evidence of racism on May 19, he does find that Willemse may have perceived and believed the conduct of Mallett and Botha on the day to be motivated by racism. Mlilo said the studio walkout incident was the straw that broke the camel's back and that what had happened on May 19 was “not a new issue”. “There's a long history ... and you can't only use one day's incident to determine whether racism was at play or not.” Maleka found in his investigation that SuperSport were aware of the uncomfortable relationship between Willemse and Mallett yet liked them in studio together, despite objections made by Mallett in this regard. He had, in an email to his employers, requested that he and Willemse not work together because they “irritated the hell out of each other". Maleka writes in his report: “Mr (Thato) Monale (executive producer for rugby at SuperSport) indicated that the robustness of the debate between Willemse and Mallett, often when it revealed the contradictory stance they both displayed during the analyses, was important to the studio show and enriched the commentary. “It is for that reason that they would prefer to rotate both Willemse and Mallett in the same panel, despite the fact Mallett had previously complained to them and expressed the preference that he should be rotated away from Willemse.” While SuperSport said on Tuesday that they were disappointed that Willemse didn't participate in the Maleka review, they respect his right not to do so. “In the spirit of reconciliation, I will make another attempt to reach out to Ashwin for us to find a mutually acceptable way forward so that he knows that this issue has been fairly investigated,” Khobane said.