They wanted to know why the government had neglected them since 1994 by not prioritising service delivery in the area. The meeting got off to a bad start with emotions running high and some people threatening to collapse it. The bone of contention was started when a leader of Eersterust steering committee wanted Msimanga to disclose the names of people he recently met to discuss community problems. The leader, Ricardo Terry, accused Msimanga of having met with people who were not legitimate community leaders. He insisted that Msimanga must first unmask their identity before he could field more questions from him and other residents. Although Msimanga admitted to having met with some community representatives, he refused to disclose their names. “Some of them are pastors here,” he said. The mayor then went on to question the legitimacy of the steering committee. “In August 2016 you elected a councillor and a committee is elected without a councillor being involved how is that legitimate?” His comment elicited angry reactions from most people inside a packed community hall. Others shouted that people must disperse from the meeting because Msimanga didn’t want to acknowledge their leaders. Terry later told the Pretoria News it was important for him to know about the identity of those who met with the mayor because he wanted to join forces with them. “It was important to ask that question because we want to organise the community. There are lots of forums here. So we need to all find ourselves and get together so that when politicians come here we can speak with one voice,” he said. Regarding concerns about the legitimacy of the committee, he said: “There were open public hearings where we elected representatives. We have minutes and an attendance register. We can even prove (that) in the court of law.” He said the purpose of the committee was to spearhead issues on behalf of the community. “We need to take charge of our community. We need to organise and approach the community. It is a steering community which was requested by the MEC for Housing, Uhuru Moiloa, who encouraged us to organise ourselves,” he said. There were concerns expressed that coloured people didn’t want to relocate to Extension 22 in Mamelodi, where the government promised to build them RDP houses. “There are two or three people who don’t want to move out of Eersterust, but I can show you a list of 60 people who want to go. “Our people are tired of staying in concentrated spaces. “If you can give them the keys today they are going to stay there,” Terry said. Msimanga reiterated his commitment to tackling service delivery issues in the area. “There are issues of service delivery here we must address and we will address them. On May 3 I was here. We spent five hours here in meeting and we spoke about a number of things which include issues of water, clinic, drugs, housing and electricity,” he said. Msimanga also warned residents to guard against criminal elements that wanted to spoil their good cause of fighting for better services. “There are people who use the plight of the people to drive their own agendas. Why would you want to stop somebody from going to work when you are talking about unemployment? Why do you go and break into the police station while we are dealing with the problem of drugs?” he asked. Some people said they broke into the police station because the police were useless. One resident said: “It is insulting to us, the people of Eersterust, that the mayor can sell a mayoral mansion and declare that he would use the money to build houses in Atteridgeville. Why can’t they build our houses here and not in Extension 22 in Mamelodi?” Pretoria News