JAMES MAHLOKWANE CHILD Welfare Tshwane celebrated child protection week in style by engaging with various social activists, stakeholders and academics at the University of Pretoria’s Hatfield campus. Hanlie Delport from Child Welfare Tshwane said the event couldn't have happened at a better time because it was child protection week and come June 13 the organisation would celebrate a massive 100 years of child welfare service. Delport said staff from the Groenkloof office would celebrate the special milestone by marching around its office to showcase their love and passion for child welfare. The march would also demonstrate the organisation’s appreciation to all its funders and volunteers who continued giving their time and financial support to the children of South African. “We are proud to be a 100-years-old non-profit organisation that is partially funded by government. We have survived this long because of the support of individuals, government, organisations and companies that continued to believe in our cause. These are people who supported us financially and otherwise. “We would not be here without every single person that helped us through our tough times. Trust me, there have been many. We would like to say thank you to all those people because by enabling us they enabled many children in South Africa,” said Delport. The NGO successfully attracted numerous delegates from socially active organisations, social workers and police officers dealing in child care and protection to the university’s Sanlam Auditorium. Academics who did extensive research on childcare and child protection gave lectures to an a large and interactive audience. The event opened to the public, was a day long occasion scheduled to end on Friday night with a cocktail reception. Director of Child Welfare Tshwane Linda Nell said: “We cannot have any dreams about a better future for South Africa if we are not looking after the most vulnerable members of the population. It is so important that we give priority to the care, protection and safety of children. We regularly get reports of children who are abused, neglected and abandoned,” Hanlie said the organisation believed that growing up in a safe and secure environment was a basic right of all children. It taught that the safety of children at home and in the community was essential to build the future of South Africa. She said Child Welfare Tshwane reached an average of 15 000 children through this annual campaign with the various activities hosted. People and companies wishing to help the organisation with donations or to volunteer their time to the cause were encouraged to visit www.childwelfaresa.org.za