In partnership with the City of Tshwane, the company gave local entrepreneurs free business training and assisted them in fine-tuning their business ideas. Jonathan Motseke, started Occasions Net in 2012, selling medical and legal insurance. His company also sells different funeral plan products, which paid claims out within six hours. “People must now wait for 24 hours for a funeral payout,” he said. The company is underwritten by Centurion-based KGA Life Insurance, which has been in business for 11 years. Despite being optimistic about prospects of growing his business, Motseke said accessing markets was among his main challenges. “This is because big insurance companies have money to advertise on television, while we don’t. “It is tough to crack the market. We are trying to get clients. We have around 34 clients,” he said. Kearabetswe Mmumaki has a company called Pixie Media, which specialises in graphic design and branding. “I studied graphic designing at Unisa, but dropped out. I then came back home to start a company,” she said. Her main challenge was getting locals to understand the type of services offered by her business. Like other entrepreneurs, Mmumaki said she was still struggling to secure funding. Entrepreneurs at the centre used internet and computers for free. Project manager Buti Makama said the organisation ran an incubation programmes which provided business training to aspiring business people. “Firstly, they will be taken to a boot camp which is a business skills course and afterwards they come to pitch their business ideas,” he said. Five entrepreneurs, who were previously part of the programme, were independently running their businesses. “We have an entrepreneur who manufactured toys and has about 15 employees,” Makama said. He said those who graduated through the programme were welcomed to come and work on new business ideas at the centre. People were incubated to the programme for a minimum of 12 months. Makama said the City commissioned work to look at the success rate of the project. He said 50% of businesses which started through the programme were still sustainable, even those at micro level. “We don’t sideline those with ideas we don’t necessarily cater for. We give them a free mentorship,” Makama said.