The performance of some health facilities in the country was sketched in the 2016-17 report tabled by the Office of Health Standards Compliance in Parliament last week. However, its chief executive, Dr Siphiwe Mndaweni, yesterday dismissed media reports which suggested that health services in the country were in shambles. Mndaweni said: “If the healthcare system was in a shambles it would be in disarray and one would not say that.” The report suggested that only five of the 696 hospitals and clinics inspected complied with the Health’s Department’s norms and standards by virtue of securing the 80% pass mark. “There have been reports that only five or so facilities actually reached the pass mark. "You will all understand that even in a class there will be distinctions and there will be students who get average marks. What we used is called a compliance judgement framework,” Mndaweni said. The compliance judgement framework looked at various ranges of compliance and not only at facilities that scored 80% and above. “Even those facilities that scored 70% to 79% were still compliant, but there must be a particular requirement that they must fulfil,” she said. Mndaweni said there were other categories of facilities that scored from 60% to 69% with some concerns registered. Others scored 50% to 59% with serious concerns. There were also the critically non-compliant facilities, which scored under 40%. “The question is: does it mean that a non-complaint facility does not provide adequate services? No, these facilities are fully functional.” Mndaweni emphasised that non-compliant facilities didn’t mean that those facilities were not providing services. “Those facilities are providing services, but there are areas of concerns they must look at
to improve and they can then move to the higher category,” she said. News headlines did not project the correct picture of the system. “We are not going to sit here and pretend everything is fine; it is not. But it is also important that the results are interpreted in the correct way.” According to the report, the target for the 2016/17 financial year was to conduct inspections in 649 of 3816 public health establishments. Mndaweni said: “I don’t want the media to think that non-compliance means that there are poor services or there are dysfunctional facilities. The ultimate goal is that the facility must improve.” She said inspectors would usually leave health facilities with the quality improvement template. She also outlined methodologies undertaken by health inspectors to evaluate performances of some health facilities across the country. According to her, health inspectors went unannounced to facilities and adopted various methodologies such as observation and interviews with patients. They also used an opportunistic sampling to pick poor-performing facilities. “It is important to note that it being an opportunistic sampling it doesn’t necessarily represent the overall performance of a particular province. What it does is to provide a glimpse of what is happening within that particular province,” Mndaweni said. Among the issues identified in facilities were leadership and corporate governance problems and shortage of staff. “We do realise there is a need for urgent intervention,” she said. The office was contacted by the national Department of Health after it released the report. “They took a list of all facilities that were inspected and they have deployed officials to look at  issues picked up through our processes and the department’s internal processes,” Mndaweni said.