Yesterday, the official opposition said it was drafting legislation on the reforms, which will be released in a month or two, to ensure there was a mix of energy sources. “The entity is not going to be sustainable, but will keep itself fiscally dependent on South Africa’s revenue and ultimately cripple the economy if no profound reforms take place,” DA leader Mmusi Maimane said. He told the media in Parliament this as the power utility warned about possible load shedding over the next 10 days. Maimane said load shedding should have been something of the past, but sadly it was not. “We should not today in 2018 be discussing load shedding but ANC mismanagement of the economy and utility Eskom brought us to this point.” Maimane also said Eskom has over the years suffered under state capture championed by the ANC. “It resulted in middle management in Eskom having more than 400 managers while historically it used to have 80. It is an indicator that it became a cash-cow for managers and became a place to inherit money for connected cronies starting with himself, the chief Brian Molefe.” He said the first crucial reform should be to curtail the number of middle managers at Eskom and then diversify energy sources. Natasha Mazzone, the DA spokesperson on public enterprises, said the party was of the firm belief that there should be massive reform at Eskom. “We have gone so far that we are at a point where the DA will introduce a private member’s bill, where we will table how we will reform Eskom completely, taking away the sole monopoly that Eskom has and introduce a competitive energy mix into our country.” The party has formulated a state-owned enterprise document which focuses on turning around struggling and financially crippled SOEs. “Eskom, unfortunately, has a long standing monopoly that needs to be broken,” Mazzone said. Eskom was a “bloated dinosaur”, with a R350 billion government guarantee out of R466 billion by all SOEs. This was untenable. “We are the only party  that can turn around this structure and certainly make things a lot easier for South Africans,” Mazzone said. She said an impact assessment on the draft legislation was being undertaken and opinion sought from experts in energy and technology fields before its release. Maimane said the reforms they wanted at Eskom were already in place in the City of Cape Town and the Western Cape, where there was investment in green energy and now moves to use gas. “The Mother City has set a goal to introduce well over 20% of its energy from renewable sources,” Maimane said. Other DA-led metros had been instructed to embark on building infrastructure to assist in the contribution of energy. Mazzone said they wanted independent power producers to come on board.