The soccer showpiece will return to the US for the first time since 1994 after gaining 134 votes, while Morocco got 65 at the Fifa Congress in Moscow yesterday. The vote by football federations was public, in contrast to secrecy surrounding the ballot by Fifa’s elected board members for the 2018 and 2022 hosts, Russia and Qatar, in 2010. The US proposed staging 60 out of the 80 games in 2026, when 16 teams will be added to the finals, leaving Canada and Mexico with 10 fixtures each. The vote by football federations was public, in contrast to secrecy surrounding the ballot by Fifa’s elected board members for the 2018 and 2022 hosts, Russia and Qatar, in 2010. The US is set to host all games from the quarter-finals. An optimistic promise of delivering $14billion in revenue helped sway voters, along with the lack of major construction work required on the 16 planned stadiums, all of which already exist. By contrast, Morocco appeared too hazardous as a potential host when all 14 venues had to be built or renovated as part of a $16bn investment in new infrastructure. The vote leaves Morocco reeling from a fifth failure in a World Cup hosting vote, with the continent’s sole tournament coming in 2010 in South Africa. While Morocco’s combined tickets and hospitality revenue would be $1.07bn, according to Fifa analysis, North America would generate $2bn additional income. Canada will host men’s World Cup matches for the first time, while Mexico gets its first taste of the event since staging the entire event in 1986. The 87000-capacity MetLife Stadium outside New York is proposed for the final. It’s just kilometres from where federal prosecutors spearheaded an ongoing investigation into Fifa corruption. The bribery scandal put the governing body on the brink, Fifa president Gianni Infantino told the congress before yesterday’s vote. “Fifa was clinically dead as an organisation,” Infantino said, reflecting on his election in 2016. “Two years later, Fifa is alive and well, full of joy and passion and with a vision for its future.” The North American victory suggests football officials are ready to gather for a World Cup in a country whose government has demonstrated its willingness to jail corrupt sports leaders through undercover investigations. The North America bid also had to overcome concerns about the impact of policies from the (US President) Trump administration, including attempts to implement a ban on travel by residents of six majority-Muslim countries. The main intervention by Trump was a warning in a White House news conference, discussing the Fifa vote, that he would be “watching very closely”. It was a veiled threat to withhold US support from countries opposing the bid. Fifa now has the final say on which cities are selected to host games and whether all three countries are guaranteed a place at the tournament. Victor Montagliani, who leads Concacaf, wants them to take three of the six qualification slots reserved for the region.