Semenya’s lawyers said their client would launch the challenge at the Court of Arbitration for Sport in Switzerland “to ensure, safeguard and protect the rights of all women”. “She asserts that the regulations are discriminatory, irrational, unjustifiable, and in violation of the IAAF (International Association of Athletics Federations) constitution, the Olympic Charter, the laws of Monaco (where the IAAF is based), the laws of jurisdictions in which international competitions are held, and of universally recognised human rights,” international law firm Norton Rose Fulbright said. Semenya said: “I am very upset that I have been pushed into the public spotlight again. I don’t like talking about this new rule. “I just want to run naturally, the way I was born. It is not fair that I am told I must change. It is not fair that people question who I am. I am Mokgadi Caster Semenya. I am a woman and I am fast.” The IAAF has introduced a new policy in April attempting to regulate women who naturally produce testosterone levels above five nanomoles per litre of blood. For now, the regulations are limited to athletes who compete in events ranging from the 400m to the mile. The global athletics governing body’s amended regulations would go into effect in November and would require female athletes to maintain testosterone levels to below five nanomoles per litre for a continuous period of at least six months. Semenya will ask the IAAF to suspend the implementation of the regulations until her legal challenge is finally disposed of. “Without a timely halt to the regulations, healthy women around the world could undergo unnecessary medical intervention to be eligible to compete under the regulations or be unfairly prevented from participating in their chosen sport." Norton Rose Fulbright revealed that it would tackle the IAAF with the support of Davies Ward Phillips & Vineberg, LLP, that represented Indian sprinter Dutee Chand in her successful challenge to the IAAF’s 2011 hyperandrogenism regulations. In 2015, the court ruled the IAAF had to provide scientific evidence that enhanced testosterone levels translated into improved performances in hyperandrogenic athletes. Semenya’s legal challenge formed part of a two-pronged approach to dealing with the new regulations with the collective South African sports movement also planning to file papers with the Court of Arbitration. Spearheaded by the Department of Sports and Recreation, the SA Sports Confederation and Olympic Committee (Sascoc) and Athletics SA (ASA) are expected to make their own submissions. Sascoc president Gideon Sam said a committee headed by their medical commission chairperson, Dr Phatho Zondi, had been meeting regularly to plot a way forward. The committee includes a sports physician, legal counsel, an endocrinologist and a sports scientist. “They will put a report together to submit to Sports Ministry director-general Alec Moemi, who will discuss it with the minister (Tokozile Xasa),” Sam said. “That would be the response by the South African sports movement. We would make sure we have all our ducks in a row when we tackle them ensuring there are no loopholes in our approach.” Norton Rose Fulbright said Semenya contends the regulations were objectionable on numerous grounds. They argue that the regulations would compel women to undergo medical interventions to lower their testosterone without the support of concrete science. “Ms Semenya is equally concerned by the way in which the regulations continue the offensive practice of intrusive surveillance and judging of women’s bodies which has historically haunted women’s sports,” its statement read. “The regulations stigmatise and cause harm to women, and legitimise discrimination against women in sport perceived as not adhering to normative ideas about femininity.” Norton Rose Fulbright said it was honoured to represent Semenya in the landmark case which it believed would have major consequences for gender rights.