JAMES MAHLOKWANE
james.mahlokwane@inl.co.za Eersterust residents gathered at the Pretoria Magistrate's Court this morning to support friends and family members who were arrested last week for public violence and theft, following a string of service delivery protests. The people said they were angry and disappointed that the police "randomly" arrested a group of young men from the streets closest to the Eersterust police station when they should be arresting real culprits. "The Eersterust police station was ransacked on Thursday night so the police just went out on an arresting spree and threw our children who were sitting on the streets in the back of their vans. "My grandson is an 18-year-old boy who was not even part of the community protest. The police were embarrassed that they lost a firearm. They failed to execute proper investigations from CCTV footage and just arrested anyone in their path," said a frustrated Barney Williams. Most of the people said they have not seen or heard from friends and family members who were arrested. They said they do not even know where they are held and one of the suspects was still in matric. "We tried to find our children but they are not at the Eersterust police station and we believe they have not been given a chance to make phone calls. We fear that the innocent will be unfairly imprisoned for a crime they did not do," "The MEC for Human Settlement Uhuru Moiloa intervened and restored peace in the community. The police must release those suspects who did not do anything wrong and look at CCTV footage to punish those responsible," said Odile Williams. The community said they would be hurt if the National Prosecuting Authority went ahead and prosecuted the suspects without asking the police to conduct thorough investigations. The claimed that the police left their police station in their police vans and arrested the suspects who were on nearby streets. The people said they will mobalise other community members to help support those who were innocent. They planned to inform MEC Moiloa to intervene so that innocent children would not be blamed for the sins of others. The police have not taken kindly to members of the community attacking a police station. They are determined to investigate the matter and ensure that those responsible for ransacking the police station and stealing property were punished.