The City dispatched teams to the troubled community and they set up work stations at the centre from Friday until yesterday afternoon. The officials were giving residents feedback on the issues they raised following violent protests that erupted in the area on June 13. The three-day unrest over service delivery resulted in the death of one person. A police station was attacked, after which several people were arrested for criminal activities that ensued. With statements in hand, the residents filled up the hall waiting patiently for their turn to sort out the billing issues they said had been plaguing them for some time. Residents said they were dismayed that it took a violent protest for the City to react, but they were nonetheless pleased that something was finally being done. Tessa Mokwena said she was relieved her R7000 water bill had been sorted and a reasonable payment arrangement organised. “This is what we needed, because according to them they were estimating the consumption. We barely make enough money, so at least now we know how to read the statements right and can save money.” Sophie Block said she needed help with her water and electricity bill, which had sky-rocketed to R21000 in recent months. Block said that in addition to having to withstand constant power outages, City officials took forever to respond to calls. She also said that when the teams eventually came they accused her family of having breached the meter box. She vehemently denied that, saying she was too old to risk getting electrocuted when tampering with the electricity box. “I have never touched that box, and we keep it locked so I don’t understand what went wrong. It hurts me because I take R1400 from my pension just for us not to fall further into debt,” she said. City spokesperson Selby Bokaba said the reachout campaign saw the municipal teams listening to people’s complaints and how they perceived the City and the services rendered. He said the engagement with the community came as a result of legitimate complaints raised during their protest, which was unfortunately hijacked by criminal elements. Even though there had not been an outage in the community since June 5, the main problem the City had was that the substation in the community had been vandalised and batteries, chargers and cables stolen. Bokaba said the City had taken the residents' complaints seriously following the protest. They had taken a number of initiatives, the first being to station a technical team at Waltloo station to service the Mamelodi and Eersterust areas. “We have also added a team to drive around the area so that when a call comes in they don’t have to drive long distances and as such improve our restoration time.” Bokaba said they were happy with the turnout by the community, and had implored residents to selfishly guard the infrastructure as if it was their own. “We are not abdicating our responsibility as the City, but residents need to understand that by simply standing back while criminals vandalise infrastructure, ultimately ends up affecting them. So they need to jealously guard those resources we have installed for them,” he said.