Gordhan was the first witness to testify before a commission led by retired Judge Robert Nugent which is probing the laxity in tax administration following a directive by President Cyril Ramaphosa last month. Gordhan was quick to admit that he was not aware of the magnitude of the rot in Sars until the publication of the Gupta leaks in 2016. “(The) Gupta leaks helped me understand what is happening in Sars. In December 2014, I gave the commissioner 10 questions to answer about the modernisation plan. I did not get an answer. It did not happen. I was told we need to continue. It was only after the leaks appeared that I understood what was happening there,” Gordhan said. He had ordered Moyane to stop making changes to the modernisation plan he (Gordhan) had introduced as Sars Commissioner prior to his initial appointment as finance minister in 2009. In one of the reported Gupta leaks, it was reported that Moyane allegedly authorised the payment of a R70million VAT refund to a Gupta-linked company. The report stated that the Oakbay director, Ronica Ragavan, e-mailed Moyane on May 22, 2016, requesting him to pay the first of the three VAT payments amounting to R70m into Terbium Financial Services' account for the benefit of Oakbay. Terbium was a payment agent of the Guptas to manage the payment of staff salaries after the country’s four major banks in 2016 severed ties with the Guptas following accusations of state capture and corruption against the family. According to the leaks, the payments were made despite warnings that the law did not permit the payment of VAT refunds into third party accounts to prevent fraud and money laundering. At the time, Moyane was adamant, saying he did nothing wrong in approving the transactions. “As commissioner, I exercised my discretion in terms of Section 72 of the VAT Act due to the anomalous situation created by the closure of the Oakbay bank accounts, particularly in view of the fact that the refunds were due and payable in law to Oakbay. “The allegation of illegality therefore has no basis,” Moyane said. Gordhan told the commission yesterday that “what we learntin 2016 and the Gupta leaks” led him to connect the dots. During his cross-examination, Gordhan testified that in December 2014, he was reappointed finance minister after then president Jacob Zuma had fired his predecessor Nhlanhla Nene. He said that among his immediate duties, following his appointment on December 13, 2014, he managed to secure a meeting with Moyane on December 15 to find out why the “modernisation plan” set up by Sars in 1997 was abandoned. According to Gordhan, the “modernisation plan” was a set of rules implemented to ensure effective revenue collection, saying that to do so Sars had to recruit the best people with skills to do that job. He said that while he was the commissioner, after being appointed in 1998, he managed to set up an investigation team to probe the illicit trade in cigarettes and abalone and to ensure that all people including companies were tax compliant. Gordhan said tax collection between 2006 and 2009 was good during the 2006/07 financial year, Sars collected R541.2billion; during 2007/08 it collected R627.6bn; in 2008/09 R625.1bn and in 2009/10 it collected R657.5bn. Gordhan also testified about how he was accused of having influenced the early retirement package for Ivan Pillay, saying the accusation was meant to tarnish his image for asking about the problems at Sars. Gordhan also denied accusations that the reason his modernisation plan was reversed was due to its alleged failure on Black Economic Empowerment. Gordhan said his accusers had to read the annual reports since he was commissioner, saying there was little black representation when he took over, and he went on a massive recruitment drive. More damning evidence is expected to be heard today.