Pretoria - Asbestos shacks, communal ablution facilities made of cardboard and corrugated iron sheets and only a few taps to share between them. Former residents of a block of hostels in Mamelodi have called these squalid conditions home for 10 years while waiting for better housing. The former residents of the Block W hostels yesterday spoke of the pain of living in the appalling, makeshift conditions. The block was vacated in 2009 to make way for family units. The residents were moved to temporary structures on vacant land next to Denlyn Shopping Centre, with a promise by the City that they would be accommodated in the units. On Wednesday they said they felt neglected and left to live in squalor. Stanley Mamogobo, secretary of the Decanting Unit (an organisation of the former residents of the hostel), said that shortly after the completion of the first batch of 98 units in 2013, they were invaded by other dwellers. The ANC-led City at the time promised that the invaders would be evicted, but failed to do so. “They didn't do anything, and when we as the rightful owners of those units wanted to take matters into our own hands, the police ended up attacking us. We’ve tried to talk to everyone we could think of to help us out, but we just end up being taken from one pillar to the next. Not even the provincial department has bothered to take action on our behalf.” Mamogobo said their health was being affected living near the asbestos. “Every year we lose someone to TB and other respiratory ailments because of these asbestos structures. Ablution services are dilapidated, and filthy water is all around us.” Resident Jacob Mosala said their initial hope of having decent housing had all but vanished. The 60-year-old said they were promised they would only stay in the temporary structures for three years, yet no action had been taken. “It is a hard feeling like you were lied to, and are being left to die on purpose. We barely make enough money to afford fancy doctors. We are not asking for heaven and earth, nor do we want to resort to violence, as old as we are. All we want is what was promised to us,” Mosala added. Issues such as allocation of family units and living conditions at Mamelodi hostels have plagued the City for years and date back to when the City was under the ANC administration of Kgosientso Ramokgopa. The DA provincial leadership noted during an impromptu visit to some of the hostels earlier this year that despite millions being spent on the hostels, they remained in a deplorable state. City officials on Wednesday said they were caught up in meetings and could give no clarity on the situation. Pretoria News