VIRGILATTE GWANGWA 
virgilatte.gwangwa@inl.co.za THE Ga-Rankuwa, Rearabilwe Child and Youth Care Centre received positive feedback from the DA Social Development spokesperson, Justus de Goede; saying he is impressed with how the institution is run. The feedback comes after the DA conducted a surprise oversight inspection at the institution to assess the social services that are rendered to the residents and if the facility is fulfilling its mandate. The inspection took place on Monday morning. During the visit, head of the institution, Lucia Mokoena said staff members did all they could to ensure that children residing there were well taken care of. She said however, they were in need of more staff members to assist. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  "We only have one nurse to care for all our children and the nurse works shifts, meaning if she's not here then we don't have anyone. "We have a challenge of space because now we have three social workers sharing an office and they complain of lack of privacy with the children which is understandable. "However, the department of social development is currently building an administrative building which will have fourteen offices where our social workers will be able to have their privacy," she said. She told De Goede that the biggest challenge they ever faced at the institution was during staff protests last year in March which lasted for a month. She said she had expected the protest to last a day but little did she know that the vulnerable children the institution cared for would be left alone for an entire month. It was the most challenging month of our lives because all staff members were off except for the three of us managers. "Staff members barricaded all the entrances, they wouldn't let anyone in or out of this place, we were also locked inside with the children. "They turned away ambulances, service providers and the police, they were so violent," she explained. The institution based in Ga-Rankuwa Zone 2 currently caters for 49 children