He visited the family of Arthur Moses, 60, who died during the first day of three days of unrest linked to service delivery last week. Police fired teargas near his home when they tried to disperse rampaging protesters. The MEC said he could not pay his condolences to the family on Friday because of the volatile situation in the area. He said he regretted what had happened and told the family it was the responsibility of leadership to listen very carefully when the public raised concerns. “We only heard at the meeting, when we came to address the community on Friday, that there had been a loss of life. "But one life lost in any situation is one life too many. When a situation arises out of our own weaknesses, it’s better, but the manner in which a person loses their lives without God’s purpose, it is very unfortunate. “It is a painful thing to lose a father in such a situation. These are the kinds of situations that our nation should not tolerate. We should listen to each other more to avoid conflict situations that result in police using violent measures which lead to the loss of life.” Moiloa said that often when members of the public realised their concerns were not being attended to they burst out in anger, resulting in something like what had happened at Eersterust. “The police tried to maintain peace, order, protection of public property, but someone got hurt and it’s really unfortunate. We want to pass our condolences, wish the family strength and accept this has happened.” Moiloa said that if the incident was a result of police brutality, the public had the right to contact the Independent Police Investigative Directorate for an investigation to be conducted. Moses’s sons, brothers, mother, nieces, nephews and sisters sat in silence in the presence of the MEC. His son Joseph Moses said he couldn’t believe he had become fatherless. Nonetheless, he said the only way to deal with the pain was to accept that his father was gone. Joseph said that on the day his father died, they had a conversation about how it was difficult to go to work due to the protest. His father advised him to call his bosses rather than risk being injured getting to work. He took that advice and stayed at home, only to find his father later lying dead on the floor. “The second time I saw him that day was when I found him lying here lifeless, yet in the morning when I saw him he was perfectly fine.” The other son, Abram, could not hold back his tears when Moiloa hugged him. The family's aunt, Annette Moses, said she became aware when an ambulance was called by residents. However, the ambulance could not make its way into the area because of the violence. “I was in the other part of Eersterust and I couldn’t get to work. I received a call and was informed my brother had died after he inhaled teargas. I couldn’t believe he had died just like that.” According to his landlord Brendan Jacobs, Moses was sitting under a tree in the backyard at about 3pm last Wednesday. Three canisters of teargas fired by police landed close by, and Moses inhaled the fumes. He ran into his shack, coughing while grabbing his chest with both hands. His eyes were watering, Jacobs said. The asthmatic Jacobs had lent him an asthma pump, which calmed him down. “After the commotion had settled, we walked around the yard to get some fresh air. He wasn’t looking good and asked to lie down to sleep off the pain.” Jacobs said they wanted to take Moses to the hospital, but there was too much chaos outside. He later died while being massaged on the chest by a woman called Vanessa Phala. On Sunday Moiloa said the government would work with the residents of Eersterust and integrate them with the nearby communities of Mamelodi and others. Moiloa also visited sites identified for possible development. “In his honour, we will develop some form of communication so we can work together to avoid this kind of situation.” The unrest started before dawn on Wednesday when residents of Eersterust barricaded roads and burnt tyres, saying they were upset with the slow pace of service delivery. Issues included constant electricity outages, high rates and taxes, water restrictions and a flawed RDP allocation process. There were running battles between the police and residents. Stones were thrown and police responded with teargas and rubber bullets. Moiloa went to talk to residents on Friday and calm was restored. Pretoria News