Pretoria - MEC for Education Panyaza Lesufi is expected to receive numerous donations to develop and upgrade facilities of 21 schools and various churches in Tshwane from money donated by the Motsepe Foundation in Mabopane. Mining magnate and billionaire Patrice Motsepe was welcomed with a standing ovation from hundreds of pupils, educators, parents and community members. The Mobopane Multipurpose Centre at ODI stadium received scores of community leaders, church leaders and MMC for Roads and Transport, Sheila Lynn Senkubuge. Senkubuge attended on behalf of the City of Tshwane and the executive mayor, Solly Msimanga, who could not make it for to the event. She expressed the city's gratitude for the donation. Senkubuge said the donation of funds would go a long way in assisting and aiding pupils in the City of Tshwane. She said such contributions from foundations like the Motsepe Foundation were crucial in helping government to provide service delivery. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  Motsepe's wife, Precious, said  the Motsepe Foundation had been in partnership with government, in particular the health and education departments. She said the foundation's bursary scheme sought to assist and enable pupils to pursue their dreams and study medicine to help improve South Africa's healthcare and make it a competitive one globally. Motsepe is also the owner of the premiership champions, Mamelodi Sundowns. His presence attracted Mamelodi Sundowns supporters wearing their favourite football team's bright yellow and green. Motsepe stood up and thanked all the teachers, pupils, church and community leaders for making this day possible. People from Hammanskraal were very proud when he spoke about his childhood in the area. He said many people from the Motsepe clan were from all over Tshwane townships and he was excited to be in Tshwane because this was home. He encouraged pupils to know that they could reach their dreams through education and break all poverty barriers.
 
"Through hard word and secrifice, you will succeed and achieve everything you want to achieve. We would also like to thank all the church leaders and church members in this venue because they do great work in our communities," said Motsepe. He said the Motsepe family are all they are because of the love and support of so many people. He said his family would fix his old family store in Mmakau because that's where it all started for him. He used to sit behind the counter and sell atchar and bread.