THE gardener who killed an elderly Moot couple by stabbing them with garden shears, was on Tuesday sentenced to life imprisonment, as well as a further 45 years imprisonment. Stemmer January Mahlangu, 40, of Hammanskraal, admitted that he murdered Cornelius Visser, 76 and his 79-year-old wife Gertruida in the couple’s home on December 27 2016. According to Mahlangu he first attacked the man following a dispute over his Christmas bonus. He said Mr Visser, who was affectionately known as “Oom Corrie” said he did not have money to pay for a bonus, as former president Jacob Zuma had wasted the country’s money. An argument ensued and Mahlangu told the Gauteng High Court, Pretoria, that he had lost his temper. He stabbed Visser in the neck and he died on the scene. Mrs Visser, who was affectionately known as “Tannie Gerrie” by the gardener, stood in the kitchen door after her dying husband called out for her. She was on her cellphone and Mahlangu told her not to call the police. He said he tried to grab the phone out of her hands and when she resisted,  he stabbed her on the head and the neck with the garden shears. She died a few days later in hospital. Judge Bert Bam, in sentencing Mahlangu, said it was a violent and vicious attack on two defenceless old people. Mrs Visser could barely walk and she mostly used a wheelchair to move around in, while her husband’s vision was impaired. The Judge said it is unfortunately so that in our country attacks on defenceless people are rife. “Our courts deal with these type of offences on a weekly, if not a daily basis. Despite the courts imposing harsh sentences, these attacks are on the increase,” the judge said. He remarked that Mahlangu did not show any mercy to his victims, nor did he show any remorse for his actions. He sentenced Mahlangu to life imprisonment for Mrs Visser’s murder, as she was frail and could not defend herself against the attacks. He will have to serve 30 years for Mr Visser’s killing, while he received a further 15 years for robbing the elderly woman of her cellphone. Their son Marius after sentencing said the family was satisfied with the outcome. “May the rats eat him alive,” he commented. Pretoria News