Panieri-Peter testified yesterday in the Western Cape High Court where Jason Rohde is standing trial after his wife Susan was found dead at the Spier Wine Estate in 2016. Rohde is accused of strangling his wife and staging her suicide. She was found hanged with an electrical cord from a hook behind the bathroom door of the hotel room they shared. Panieri-Peter told the court that she had had physical and telephonic sessions with many people who had been involved in both Jason and Susan Rohde’s life, family members and friends, including the family psychologist and marriage counsellor who had been seeing the family before Susan Rohde's death. In answer to defence advocate Graham van der Spuy, she told the court that given her understanding of psychiatry, she would say that Susan Rohde had major depression, specifically anxiety, distress and mixed mood disorder. “And that alone increased her risk of suicide, very significantly. "What she really wanted to achieve that weekend was that everyone would see that she and her husband were happy, and that she could prove to herself that she had won, over the mistress,” she said. Jason Rohde and his wife had a fight about his extramarital affair with a colleague, who was also at the hotel in the hours leading up to Susan Rohde’s death, during a company function. “My lady, my conclusion is that, prior to this crisis, she had a number of vulnerabilities. These vulnerabilities were that she had a personality that was high energy, on the go, busy. "She naturally didn’t sleep for very long and she was a person who had some insecurities. She was a perfectionist, she wanted the world to see the good side of her and her family. She did not share things that were painful to her with others,” Panieri-Peter told the court. She also said that Susan Rohde was socially isolated in relation to things that were painful to her and that she may have had some genetic risk factors with the development of mood disorder. “In relation with the crisis that occurred when she found out that her husband was having an affair, she had, by many different accounts, a dramatic change in her demeanour and her emotions.”