These can be bought for individual events or full day passes at R200 for concerts, celebration concert tickets and some of the award ceremonies. The opening ceremony on July 4 and closing ceremony on July 14 are limited to attendees and VIP guests, but will be broadcast live on KykNET Nou. During this ceremony listen for the premiere of the new World Choir Games anthem, titled One Voice and composed by John Rutter. The closing ceremony will feature a massed choir event. There are also a number of free friendship concerts planned with local and visiting choirs around the city, as well as open rehearsals and workshops. Ali Mpofu, CEO of both the African Cultural Development Foundation and the Local Organising Committee for the World Choir Games, said he was excited by the prospect of internationally renowned choirs performing in South Africa. Mpofu said the international interest in the World Choir Games bodes well for the event, South Africa as a host country and is testimony to the universal appeal of choral music. It is also appropriate that it is in the Mandela centenary month. There are choirs expected from China, Korea, Singapore, Austria, Germany, Switzerland, Lithuania, Greece, the Netherlands, Jamaica and the US. “Anyone who is a fan of choral music will want to be part of this historic event”, Mpofu said, while those visiting South Africa could look forward to a great time. The games are divided into the Champions Competition for choirs with international competitive experience or comparable credentials and the Open Competition which allows them to gather valuable experience in international competition. Celebration Concerts will take place at the University of Pretoria’s Aula Theatre as well as at the NG Kerk Universiteitsoord, and there are a number of other concerts arranged by embassies, schools and other bodies to look forward to. The concerts at the Aula Theatre are on July 5, 6 and 11 and those at Universiteitsoord on July 5, 6 and 12. For details on the programme, go to www.tshwane2018.org