After a 10-minute break - he went hunting for a toilet which he found in the nearby bushes - he re-joined the ultimate human race but fell short by a minute on Sunday when the gun went off at the halfway in Drummond. Instead of shedding a tear of disappointment, the 50-year-old from Pretoria, who was the first athlete to miss the cut when the gun went off at 
6hrs 10 minutes, was upbeat and said he would be back next year. “It’s no use crying - I’m disappointed - but that’s the way it is,” said Makone, who runs for CSIR of Pretoria. “There’s no guarantee that you would finish Comrades once you’ve started. On the day if you feel good you will have a good race. “I did not, hence I missed the cut at halfway.” He put in a few thousand kilometres in training during the past 12 months, spent a lot of money on accommodation and airfares plus the R500 for the entry fee but it all came to nought. But that will not be a deterring factor for him as he says he will go back to the drawing board to plan for the 2019 up run from outside the Durban City Hall to the Pietermaritzburg Oval. He says Comrades is an amazing race that every athlete would love to attempt and that it had got into his blood from the moment he started running the ultra-marathon 10 years ago. “I’ve run nine Comrades - this was the first time that I missed the cut at Drummond. This could have been my 10th finish,” he said with a wry smile. “I also had a problem with my right knee - I felt some pain and it was a nagging one that just did not want to go away. 
“It was pulling as I came 
downhill and I decided to take it easy.” Makone has two silver medals, a bronze and six Vic Clapman medals to show for his previous efforts in running the Comrades Marathon. He said he paced himself well from the bitterly cold conditions in Pietermaritzburg on the way to Drummond before things started getting out of control. “These are not excuses but these things do happen as you are all hyped-up to run the Comrades which takes the best out of you,” he said. “Unfortunately I couldn’t make it this year. I’m disappointed. This is a sport and you want to achieve, but when you don’t it hurts.” Apart from those who did not make it past halfway, Drummond was a wave of energy as hundreds of supporters and volunteers lined the rolling hills to cheer runners on to the halfway mark. Singing, dance-offs, braais and more were some of what roadside supporters did to keep themselves awake and hyped up so that they provided a sustained, loud welcome and encouragement to thousands of runners who made their way to Drummond in the 93rd Comrades Marathon. The Masongo family from Centurion were among the crowd trying to spot their family members who were running. Didi Masongo said his family participated in the Comrades every year. “This year we’re supporting my wife, Rami, for her first race. My brother, Mandla, this is his third; and our friend, Silly Mathibe, is running his 10th Comrades this year. “We travelled down to support them and we are broken up in groups of four along the route, from start to finish. “We just want them to see us and know that we are supporting them,” he said.