Billiat will leave Sundowns when his contract expires at the end of June. The talented Zimbabwean has done it all in South Africa and is keen to find his new destination in Europe. His agent, Mike Ngobeni of M-Sport-Management, made it clear that they don’t want to make rush decisions. “We are still in June. The transfer window will only open in July. I get enquiries every day about Khama. He will be free at the end of June. Why do you rush if you have more than 10 enquiries? “We are not in a hurry. We need to take the right decision. It is not about money or taking the boy to the desert for the sake of money. His next move has got to cover all aspects,” Ngobeni explained. Billiat won multiple silverware during his tenure with Sundowns. The Zimbabwean international boasts three Absa Premiership titles and medals from the Nedbank Cup, Telkom Knockout, Caf Champions League and the Caf Super Cup. In that period, Billiat had the privilege of competing against the best of the best at the Fifa Club World Cup in 2016 and the Africa of Nations with his country in 2017. Billiat was the runner-up in the Best African Player based in Africa award in 2016. His teammate Denis Onyango walked away with the accolade. “Khama wants to play in Europe. Having said that though, we can’t prevent local clubs from enquiring about him. Yes, clubs in South Africa have asked about his situation,” Ngobeni stated. Kaizer Chiefs, Orlando Pirates, SuperSport United and Bidvest Wits are among the clubs that are keen on the attacker, according to an Independent Media  source. “Khama is in the Cosafa Cup. Once the tournament finishes, then we will sit down with him and discuss the options. But like I said, we are not in a hurry. We won’t rush because we can end up making a wrong decision. “We have to take our time and think properly. Obviously, Khama is the one who will make the call. My role is to advise and he will make the decision,” Ngobeni elaborated. Billiat is looking to follow the footsteps of his former teammates such as Keagan 
Dolly and Bongani Zungu 
who are plying their trade in France.