Located along the busy Tsamaya Road at Mahube Valley, Mams Mall has been heralded as a game-changer by its developer, New Africa Development. Company director Robin Houghton said: “When we talk about a game-changer, we are talking about something that is really going to change the lives of the people. We are trying to make a new hub, a new CBD for Mamelodi.” The mall is being built on the land bought by the company four to five years ago during an auction. For years, the land accommodated a smaller Mahube Valley Plaza; its shops will be revamped and be incorporated into the 75000m² mall. “Mams Mall will be the size of Woodland Mall, right there in Mamelodi, on people’s doorsteps. It is not just a shopping centre, but it is going to be a whole new centre for Mamelodi with fashion shops, Pick *  Pay, Shoprite and all the big brands,” he said. With six cinemas and a Planet Fitness gym with indoor running track and swimming pool, the mall promises to bring a new entertainment experience to visitors. It will also have restaurants, a space for fun activities for children and banks. “We are one of only a few places in South Africa with a new Edgars; no mall is getting a new Edgars at the moment because they are closing shops,” Houghton said. The mall would have enough parking bays and five main entrances, each with a drop-off point for taxis, he said. “Taxis are important because they transport our customers,” he added. Most importantly, safety and security of visitors will be made a high priority for shoppers. “What is important for the community is to have a safe environment where people can relax and enjoy themselves,” he said. The construction phase has used more than 30% of local sub-contractors and created about 100000 temporary jobs, 90% for locals. “What we keep telling the community is that jobs in the construction are just temporary, and permanent employment will be when it opens,” he said. More than 2000 people are expected to be employed by retailers once this happens. Houghton said an online system had been created for employment applications to prevent the manipulation of the process. “We have created a system where one can apply online and be registered on a database. "We opened it on April 1 and we already have more than 20 000 applicants, who are mostly people in Mamelodi,” he said. Retailers will be responsible for hiring of applicants, according to Houghton. “We asked them to give priority to Mamelodi people. We are hoping that our retailers will employ more than 2000 people.” Other developments to take place next to the mall include a private school and hospital. “We have a deal for a Curro school. There is going to be a private hospital, a joint venture with a black-owned doctors’ medical group. We are not hospital or school developers, but just facilitated the property transaction,” he said. To date, developers have already invested towards the infrastructure in the area by building a new road, traffic light circle, stormwater drainage, sewage and an electricity sub-station. The site also accommodates public offices for the South African Social Security Agency and Home Affairs Department, as well as Mams FM community radio station. Across the road is a filling station, which services about 2000 vehicles a day. Developers said research was conducted into the living standards of the locals and the outcome showed that Mamelodi continued to grow very fast. Houghton said: “We did a lot of research into the back-room economy in Mamelodi and rentals in backyards. We did research in June 2016 and more in March this year. “Where there was just veld two year ago, there are houses today. It is very exciting for us. “There is a 27% growth in the number of houses and lots of people are formalising their households."