The protest movement was directed at a statue commemorating Cecil Rhodes which stood tall at the university premises. And from there on students took it upon themselves to bring the history of that campaign, which rolled out across the country, to the South African State Theatre in the city for Youth Month. The Fall is a new production by seven UCT drama graduates who share their personal experiences during the #RhodesMustFall and #FeesMustFall campaigns. Tonight’s opening night for the play features on the State Theatre’s 10th Annual Youth Expression Festival to commemorate Youth Month. It is on at 8pm Tuesdays to Saturdays and runs until June 24. Audiences are guaranteed the time of their lives, as they are given details on how the movement transpired and grew to the national movement which caught the eye of everyone, including the Presidency. It looks back on the gains and developments which evolved due to students’ demonstrations. However, students said the play did not offer solutions to the questions raised by the movements, but they hoped to create and nurture dialogue. There was a need to educate the country. The Fall shows the cast’s individual challenges in the movement as well as those created by the overlapping and interdependent systems of discrimination, providing a point of reference in terms of what motivated students to act and why they found the Rhodes statue offensive. “Given the current climate at tertiary institutions throughout South Africa and events in the United States recently, this production could not be more relevant, topical and perfectly programmed, focusing on and highlighting burning issues that beg to be addressed. “This vital new play adds its voice to the national and worldwide debate and youth-led revolutions against injustices, inequality in education, cultural representation and many other contemporary conflicts,” said curator Ameera Conrad. Youth Expression Festival manager Thabiso Qwabe said since the inception of the programme in 2008, it has stood the test of time and continued to challenge youth to create and tell their stories, most importantly in their own mother tongues. “This festival is directed towards empowering young people while remembering the essence of Youth Month. In its 10th year, this exciting platform for youth artistic expression invites and showcases various art forms including dance, drama, comedy, music and Visual Art,” Qwabe said. Tickets at Computicket cost R100.