During last year’s championships in Port Elizabeth, she was the second-best women’s rider but what made her performance remarkable is that she was involved in a severe crash. It happened during a road stage when the race official driving the lead vehicle got lost on the route, taking the lead riders with him. When the mistake was realised, a rider in front of Benson suddenly braked and the Tuks rider could not avoid crashing. “I just remember flying over my bicycle’s handlebars, landing heavily on my knee. “There was no time to feel sorry for myself. I was immediately back on my bike racing. Afterwards, it was established that I had microfractures in my patella. In spite of it, I continued racing.” Benson is one of South Africa’s talented road cyclists. Last year she won two silver medals at the South African Road Cycling Championships in the U23 category. During this year’s national championships she won the U23 time-trial title. But this was not before going through what every cyclist in South Africa fears - and that is to be robbed while riding. In January she, her father Rex and two friends were on their way back to Pretoria from Hartbeespoort on the N4 highway when three armed robbers ambushed them. A shot was fired to bring them to a stop. They were lucky that the robbers were only interested in their watches. After taking the watches, the cyclists were told to get going. One of the robbers fired another shot at the cyclist’s feet as extra motivation to get them on their way. In an interview with the Kormorant paper, Benson said: “I don’t know if I have ever felt such mixed emotions - obviously scared for what they could do and disappointment that no car tried to stop to help. “But if I were a motorist, I don’t think I would have stopped either. It makes one angry that we cannot even go for a bike ride without fearing for our lives.” Benson said that she and her teammates are in for a fierce battle during next week’s USSA Championships. “We have only four riders in our team while most of the other teams will have six.  In cycling, numbers do matter. A team with more riders has always tactically more options. “We will have to ride clever not to be worked over during the road stages.” The men's team representing Tuks 
comprises Edwill O’Niel, Ruben van der Merwe, Reuben Vorster, Alex Worsdale, Travis 
Barret, Armandt Jacobs, Andries Nigrini and Felix Mankie. The women’s team comprises Benson, Melanie Roux, Chalita Johnson and Kyra Hempel. - African News Agency (ANA)