THE Gauteng High court, Pretoria was told that the former Rabboni Christian School in Brits pupil who was convicted of murdering the school’s secretary, was in fact a bully and a problem child while he was at school. His co-accused, who was 16 when Hester Koster was murdered in November 2016, pleaded not guilty to the killing. He claimed he had no idea that his friend was going to rob and kill the kind-hearted woman, affectionately known as Tannie SB, when they asked her for a lift from school that afternoon. A former pupil who was at school with the two teenagers, on Wednesday testified that he saw the pair standing next to Koster’s car that afternoon. They told them that they were going to ask her for a lift to town. He later saw them leaving with her in the car. It was the last time that Koster was seen alive. The pupils were told the next day at assembly that she had been killed. The headmaster asked for anyone who had information on when they had last seen her, to come forward. The pupil said he told the two teenagers that they should go to the office and tell the police and the headmaster what they knew, as they had left with her in her car the previous day. He could not say what the pair told the police in the headmaster's office, as he had to go and write an exam. The convicted teenager, who is now 19, is serving a 25 year jail term after he had confessed to shooting Koster twice at point blank range in the head. He explained that they wanted her car. The plan was that he was going to strip the car for its parts, as his friend needed it for a car he had at home. He took his policeman father’s service pistol out of the safe at home and took it to school that day, to use it on Koster. His friend, however, said he knew nothing about these plans. His lawyer said the accused will testify that his friend bullied him constantly for three months - both verbally and physically - when he first went to that school.  They, however, later became friends. His lawyer yesterday told the court that they will call the school’s vice-principal to the witness stand to testify that the convicted teenager was a bully, he was suspended from school at a stage after he was in possession of dagga and he often did not do his homework. Proceeding