The Soshanguve Community Healthcare Centre is a hive of activity with women checking their cancer status. Women from all different backgrounds in Soshanguve have mobilised to the venue, some scared about the screening and some have brave faces. One by one they trickled into the mobile units to learn their fate. PinkDrive, in partnership with the Department of Social Development introduced two new mobile Women and Child Health Units during a community outreach event in Soshanguve.
 
“The Department of Social Development is committed to strengthening families, empowering women, keeping parents alive, preventing diseases and giving children a chance to have a normal family life. PinkDrive addresses non-communicable diseases and this helps us to ensure that we can keep our citizens healthy,” said the department’s Deputy Minister, Hendrietta Bogopane-Zulu. 
 
These two health units, which will offer cervical cancer screening in the form of pap smears, clinical breast examinations as well as basic infant services to citizens with no medical aid, were sponsored by the Embassy of Japan. Shuichiro Kawaguchi, the Minister Counsellor and Deputy Head of Mission at the Japanese Embassy, said the embassy was humbled to work hand-in-hand with PinkDrive and DSD.
 
“Japan recognises the important work that PinkDrive and the Department are doing in the South African cancer space. We know that the additional two vehicles will further assist them in delivering their screening services and to reach more citizens,” he said.
 
The CEO and Founder of PinkDrive, Noelene Kotschan, attested Kawaguchi's reasoning. “These additional units will assist us to go beyond our current reach. One of these units will be deployed to KwaZulu-Natal to help bridge the gap in healthcare services,” she said.
 
During his debut State of the Nation Address speech in February, President Cyril Ramaphosa, also made reference to the importance of taking effective measures to raise awareness about chronic diseases including cancer.