City spokesperson Lindela Mashigo said yesterday they had dispatched lab technicians to investigate following rumours and complaints of a possible outbreak of the disease. Mashigo said the City took the initiative and began urgent tests in Hammanskraal and surrounding areas yesterday. Subsequently, the City urged residents not to drink the water as it was suspected of being contaminated. Tankers roamed the area supplying drinking water in Dilopye, New Eersterust, Temba, Babelegi Industries, Marokolong, Ramotse, Majaneng, Mandela Village and Sekampaneng. “We have not identified a case of cholera yet, but we are still investigating. We also depend on health facilities to keep us informed and updated if there is a case,” said Mashigo. Yesterday, officials from Temba Maintenance Services Centre transported drinkable water to several Hammanskraal communities as per the City’s instruction. In Stinkwater, residents fetched water from community jojo tanks with buckets. They said they heard on the news that there was a possible cholera outbreak, but were told the new water was clean and safe for consumption. Some of the residents had young children along who carried smaller water containers, while the adults transported theirs in wheelbarrows. They said they needed to fetch water from the tanks every day to drink, cook and bath. Salom Mophuthing and Catherine Nkuna said Hammanskraal was notorious for dirty water, and that they would not be surprised if it made people sick. Mophuthing said their biggest concern was that cholera could not be seen with the naked eye, but that humans could not survive without water. Mac Khoza said: “Water is very important in every society, and when the water is not safe, the community is in danger. We now fear for the safety of our children who do not have a choice but to drink this water.” Margaret Maake said: “Maybe this possible outbreak will be also be a wake-up call to the City because people need running water. "I have been living in Stinkwater for many years and I am still waiting for running water. “We have taps in our yards, but we still fetch water from tanks. I do not believe that these tanks and trucks are clean enough.”