“They are so composed; it's like it's in her nature to lie. It seems it’s like a trial between these two. This is a blame game between them. It’s so tiring having to sit through this,” Olerato’s mother, Reshoketswe Makena, said outside the Pretoria North Magistrate's Court where the two were appearing. Olerato, 5, was run over by a black Jeep Compass outside his grandparents’ home in Soshanguve Block H a week after his fifth birthday in 2013. Donald Khoza, the then boyfriend of Sarah Mothapo - the woman accused of being behind the wheel - took the stand yesterday. Before proceedings began, Mothapo asked to give further evidence. She said her legal representative did not represent her well the last time she was in the dock. She faces charges of culpable homicide and failure to assist the injured child at the time. Khoza and Samuel Kgalakgosi, who was an officer at Soshanguve police station at the time of the tragedy, appeared on charges of defeating the ends of justice. According to witnesses, Mothapo had attended an event in the area and was driving the Jeep Compass. They further claimed that she went from the event to Chillies Garage, a famous joint in Soshanguve, where she found Khoza with another woman. The two women got into a fight, after which Mothapo reportedly sped off. They claimed the car hit Olerato in the process. The witnesses recalled the driver saying: “Wait, did I hit something or someone?” before driving off. It was further alleged that she took the car to three places in an attempt to hide it. Witnesses also claimed she and her passengers conspired and asked Mantshole Moekwa to take responsibility for the accident. Moekwa was allegedly promised R15000 to take the fall. Mothapo hasn’t changed her statement that says she was not at the scene of the accident, but was rather at Centurion Lake Hotel. She told the court she indeed had a witness who would confirm that she was at the hotel and only left the day after the accident. “Donald knows very well he dropped me off at the hotel at 2pm with the Mercedes-Benz. He told me he was going to Spin City. I left the black Jeep in the garage.” The witness, a Centurion Lake Hotel worker, confirmed yesterday that Mothapo made the booking, but could not indicate if she checked in on the day. Khoza gave a totally different version of events of the fateful day Olerato lost his life. “On the day of the accident we prepared to go to Soshanguve to a party. "We went out with different cars; me in the Mercedes-Benz and her in the Jeep. When we arrived there, I took the Jeep because it was due for a wash. I wanted to go to Spin City which was not far from the party,” he testified. He said when he arrived at Spin City, there wasn’t enough alcohol so he took two woman in his Mercedes-Benz off to Chillies Garage. But he realised that the Jeep was there. “I quickly tried to reverse but couldn’t. She knocked on my window so violently, and I quickly got off seeing she might damage the car. "She hit me, dragged me and called me names.” He quickly got into his car and sped off, but a few blocks away he received a call from one of the passengers with Mothapo saying they had hit a child. “I told them I can’t come because I was scared. "They later called telling me to come to a house in Soshanguve and I went. She then asked me to take her to Centurion Lake Hotel. We arrived at about 10pm.” The case is proceeding.