The increase is the second after the commuter bus operator increased the fare by 8% three months ago. In Pretoria, Putco operates in Sosh­anguve to all suburbs, Ekangala and Bronkhorstspruit to the CBD, Ekangala to Kaalfontein in Ekurhuleni, and a western Mpumalanga route. Soshanguve Transport Committee chairperson Ernest Maleka said they wanted Putco out of the township. He said they had never really been happy with the service it had provided for many years. The recent fare increase was the straw that broke the camel’s back, said Maleka, and added that the latest increase was insensitive and inconsiderate. It meant that commuters would have to dig deeper into their their pockets to foot the bill, he said. “Where do they think we should get the money from?” asked Maleka. But Putco cited fuel price hikes as the reason for the rocketing increase in operational costs. Economists have predicted another fuel hike next month, that could push the price to a record R18 per litre. Commuters have, meanwhile, objected to the increase, which they described as abnormally high. They plan to hand over a memorandum to Putco later next week. “We are going to have a commuter meeting in Soshanguve on Sunday to record our frustrations and send them to the bus service operator,” said Maleka. Victor Maslibilanga, a commuter, said he was still not sure what he was paying for besides the fuel increase. He said the the windows and doors of the buses still did not close. Another commuter, Fezile Mlambo, said the buses were slow and commuters needed two trips to reach their destinations. “I would not have a problem if the fare increase made the buses go faster so we can arrive at our destinations on time,” he said. Meanwhile, the City will adjust tariff prices for both Tshwane Bus Service and A Re Yeng bus rapid transit, effective from July1. The fares will increase by R1. The new tariff structure would be of immense benefit to commuters as they would be able to use both bus services by means of a connector card, the City said. The maximum-distance trip would be 71km at R23, while the minimum would be R7 subject to discounts and concessions. The fares were applicable to all routes. The transfer window period was 60 minutes for Tshwane Bus Service and 45 minutes for A Re Yeng. The trips could only be taken by means of a connector card.