The second annual festival had young and old taking part in gruelling relay matches and solo races, all in the name of keeping fit and healthy. The morning kicked off with the relay race, which saw teams of four and five taking turns, going around the 2km track to accomplish the goal of finishing 10km under two hours. However, most teams had their own goal of trying to finish the race earlier. Pierre Joubert, commercial manager for Titans Cricket, said the idea behind the festival came from realising that as they only had 20 cricket days in a year; the rest of the year the pristine facility was not in use. He said they started a running club last year, with the majority of those interested being women. He said this was because the stadium  offered them a nice and safe area to run. Joubert said the facility had also built change rooms for the community to use at whatever time they wanted to. They wanted people to see that they could come to a family-orientated venue and enjoy the day even though if it was not playing cricket, he said. “Running is so easy to do and it doesn’t even require equipment, just a pair of running shoes. I even witnessed a man who ran 18km without running shoes, so his prize was a pair.” As the relay kicked off, the winners for the adult relay were awarded their prizes. Team Eldoraigne came out tops, finishing their laps in 57 minutes. Ian Slinger said that deciding on taking part was a last-minute decision as he had come from Potchef-
stroom to visit his friends when they told him about the festival. “We decided to just go out and have fun. The laps were quite gruelling and my body aches from doing two laps.” “It’s nice to win as it boosts your confidence. We always win and I had a great time with my team, and the cherry on top is finishing under one hour,” he added. Brett van Staden said they took part in the school’s contest, and decided to enter as a club team. “It was hard but I enjoyed the competition and even pushed to do three laps. I would encourage people to enter such events as it’s a nice day out that doesn’t cost much.” Winners received gift packs with watches, perfumes and all sorts of goodies for their hard efforts around the track.