They could be walking to school, waiting for a bus or just hanging around town when they light up and smoke, in full view of the public. The City has spoken of plans to divert the focus to young people, and pupils in particular, to achieve the goal of a tobacco-free generation. It is the same group of young people - both male and female - who are seen smoking in town, and the fact that each street corner has vendors selling cigarettes makes it easier for pupils to access them even when under age. Earlier this month MMC for Health and Social Development, Sakkie du Plooy, called on Dr Heng Koong from the Philippines to explain what they had done to achieve a tobacco-free generation in his country. Du Plooy, speaking as Tshwane hosted mayors from across Africa recently, said the reason behind the initiative was to save lives. “This movement will form part of the anti-drug and substance abuse programme, because tobacco is also a drug. There are a lot of people in the country who die because of tobacco; we are doing this to save lives,” he said. Koong said public education was the best method to achieve the vision and goal: “Young people have so much power in society, and if we can persuade them not to smoke, then our goal will be achieved. “It is best to have an engagement with both smokers and non-smokers because once one starts to smoke it is difficult to get them to quit.” The Pretoria News took to the streets and spoke to pupils about the initiative, and although hesitant to comment, pupils said the initiative was worth a try, but it would be difficult to accomplish. A group of 16-year-old pupils from Pretoria Christian Progressive College, who declined to be named, said although they did not smoke, they doubted a tobacco-free Tshwane would be accomplished. Said one: “Let them try, but it will not be easy to convince young people to quit smoking just like that. Many of our peers are smoking and for different reasons, so for a stranger to come from nowhere and tell them to quit that will not be easy.” Another said some of his peers smoked because of problems they faced at home, while others were pushed by the fear of missing out. He said, however, he did not smoke as he was a sportsman and wanted to become the best, and so would not allow smoking to prevent him from becoming a football striker in years to come. The young people pointed out that they smoked despite the country’s strict tobacco control measures, to enforce laws banning smoking in public places and which restrict tobacco sale to minors. Statistics have shown that at least 550 men die from tobacco use every week in South Africa. The global tobacco epidemic is reported to kill more than 7million people each year, of which close to 1million are non-smokers dying from second-hand smoke. A report by Statistics SA has shown that 7% of women aged 15 and older currently smoke tobacco products in the country, and a stroll through Pretoria easily confirms this.