Referring to Malema’s weekend attack where he claimed the majority of Indians were racist, Maimane said the DA's vision of a non-racial South Africa was something he was willing to fight for. He was speaking on the sidelines of the South African Property Owners Association conference held in Durban yesterday where he addressed delegates on the DA’s stance on land expropriation without compensation. The SA Human Rights Commission (SAHRC) yesterday confirmed it was considering the DA’s complaint against Malema. At a Youth Day commemoration rally in Matlosana in North West on Saturday, Malema said most Indians hated Africans and “we should not be afraid to say they are racists”. Not everyone was oppressed in the same way and Indians and coloureds had “all sorts” of resources Africans did not have, Malema told his supporters. “They deliberately distort what we say. I’m telling all those Indian journalists who organised a mob against us that we are not scared. You will fail. We are not made by the media - we are made by the masses,” he reportedly said. The South African Hindu Dharma Sabha also lodged a complaint with the SAHRC against the EFF leader. The South African Minority Rights Equality Movement (Samrem) have also threatened legal action against him. However, EFF spokesperson Mbuyiseni Ndlozi defended Malema, saying there was no human rights violation in an open and honest debate about race relations. “Those normally unable to engage often resort to institutions hoping to intimidate and silence him,” he said. Ndlozi said the EFF did not call for violence against Indians but rather a change of attitude in the way Indians relate to African people. He was disappointed that the EFF’s concern about Indians’ anti-African sentiment had been misinterpreted as an attempt to attract African votes for next year’s general elections. “When we first raised these matters last year we were having our fourth anniversary in Durban, and there were no elections.” The EFF and Malema are no strangers to the SAHRC. Malema has come under fire a number of times for his remarks against Indians: The DA complained to the SAHRC about Malema’s remarks about Port Elizabeth mayor Athol Trollip when he told a crowd in PE they were “going for your white man in PE. We're going to cut the throat”. EFF deputy leader Floyd Shivambu accused the Treasury’s deputy director-general Ismail Momoniat of having a superiority complex which did not allow him to take orders from African seniors. In July 2017, Malema accused Indians of exploiting African workers and monopolising the KwaZulu-Natal economy. At the party’s fourth anniversary special, he reportedly said: “The Indians who own shops don’t pay our people. They give them food parcels. We want a minimum wage even in Indian shops." He also accused the KwaZulu-Natal ANC of being captured by “Indian families”. After his 2017 remarks, the Minority Front consulted with the Human Rights Commission over Malema’s “frivolous utterances”. In 2011, Malema, then still an  ANC Youth League member, met the SA Minority Rights Equality Movement (Samrem) after he used a derogatory racial tag while referring to Indians. He apologised and Samrem withdrew its threat of court action.