The head of Agriculture and Environmental Management in the metro, Mthobeli Kolisa, said this was to clamp down on the illegal activity, which was becoming a big problem. Kolisa was presenting the City’s new waste strategy during the third and final day of the African Cities Sustainability Forum at the CSIR Convention Centre. The strategy entails how solid waste can be efficiently collected and disposed off, among other objectives. Most importantly, it dealt with law-enforcement and the prevention of illegal dumping emanating from the growing problem of building rubble. “The community needs to organise themselves and report illegal dumping for a fee of R3000 (for successful prosecution),” Kolisa said. Those willing to report culprits could make a living out of doing so by earning a living wage. “Money to compensate them will be collected from the person who will be
prosecuted,” he said. The strategy also looked at new ways of disposing of solid waste products because the present approach of discarding them in landfills was not sustainable. He said the City had never developed a single landfill site since its establishment in 2000 despite its population growing tremendously over the years. The City had four operational landfills, which could be closed soon. “In five years we will have no landfills if we can’t do something about the problem.” Kolisa said it was important to change the behaviour of residents and make them understand that not everything belonged in a dustbin. “We are not going to be developing new landfill sites and we will need to partner with private
companies.” Part of the strategy focused on the City’s fleet, waste collection and separation, reuse and recycling integrated into collection and disposal of waste methods. He said the City was short of trucks and vehicles transporting rubbish and this situation opened up new opportunities for entrepreneurs and private companies. In order for the City to offer efficient services to residents, it ought to have at least 464 units in its fleet valued at R1.3billion. The City
currently has 136 units, which were contracted with an estimated value of R260m. Economic and job creation opportunities were also highlighted as part of the strategy. Recently, the City’s Department of Agriculture and Environmental Management conducted the assessment of its organogram in comparison to other cities. Kobisa said the staff complement of the department was very small compared to other cities in the country. “The level of vacancies is too high, and that creates opportunities for professionals to join the city.” Another speaker, Sandra Mazo-Nix of Climate and Clean Air
Coalition, spoke about financing models for solid waste from a global perspective. “If people continue to dispose of waste it will inevitably bear negative impacts on the environment,” she said. She cited an example of the open burning of waste, which emitted black carbon and other pollutants as a dangerous way to dispose of waste. Mazo-Nix said solid waste management was a very expensive exercise to carry for municipalities. She said some policymakers lacked knowledge about the cost of waste management and that impacted on the ability of cities to impose fines for waste violation.