Through its contribution to the little rhino’s long road to recovery, Gift of the Givers has appealed to the public to get involved in rhino conservation and support efforts for the rehabilitation of injured and traumatised animals. Last month, a SANParks section ranger received a radio call from field rangers alerting him that a gunshot had been heard in the Skukuza section of the Kruger National Park. Helicopter support was deployed and soon after a dead white rhino cow with a live calf was located.  Both horns had been removed from the cow and the calf had serious injuries to his back and right foot. A vet stabilised the calf before it was transported by helicopter to the Care for Wild Rhino Sanctuary. Arthur’s wounds were scrubbed, cleaned and bandaged. He had a cut to his right front toenail which split the nail down to the nail-bed, and a 10cm gash on his back that cut through cartilage very close to his spine. The deep gash was stitched up, and the calf received antibiotics and vitamin injections. The team working with Arthur says he is well on the road to recovery. Wilson-Chandler said she had treated many animals over the years, but the work of Michelle Potgieter, a volunteer at the sanctuary, inspired her to help Arthur. It is understood that baby rhinos die more commonly from emotional trauma rather than wounds, especially when they are separated from their mothers. And Arthur required tender, loving care, a gentle touch and an expert wound specialist to nurse him to health in a safe, secret and private rehabilitation environment. “It is quite shocking how inhumane people would be to attack a baby rhino like this. The degree to which he was hurt was quite shocking. This is not the first animal I’ve helped, and it won’t be the last.” Wound dressings and medical supplies have poured in from BSN, Ligamed, Electrospyres, Acetily, Umzinzi Health and Safarnex. Those wanting to support the project, and those requiring assistance for traumatised rhinos, can contact Michelle Potgieter at 0767853437 or Liz Wilson-Chandler at 0832590257. Care for Wild can be reached at: media@careforwold.co.za