MMC for Community Safety Anniruth Kissoonduth told a Pretoria east ward feedback meeting on community safety and security the situation was exacerbated by the fact that 1000 officers were deployed as part of the watchman services. Another 2000 engaged by the previous administration required retraining as they were not fully qualified and skilled for the job. Kissonduth said that based on land mass, Tshwane was the world’s third largest municipality. He told the meeting for residents of Wards 45, 46 and 83 held at Time Square Arena on Saturday that talks had been initiated with the mayor to increase the size of the metro police department. The department came under fire from the community for its lack of visibility in Pretoria east, co-operation with the community and local security companies, involvement and enforcement of by-laws, and poor co-operation with the SAPS in dealing with crime. While Jenny Malan, the deputy chief of the metro police was present, concern was raised at the lack of a formal SAPS presence at the meeting arranged by councillors Leo Middelberg (Ward 45);Pieter van Heerden (Ward 46) and Francois Bekker (Ward 83) to address residents’ security concerns. Issues raised included cable theft, illegal trading, squatters, drug abuse, general crime and the high costs involved in creating gated communities. Particular problem areas highlighted were Newlands Plaza, the Atrium building in Lynnwood Glen, the Garstfontein Road reserve, Jimmy Aves Park, the Moreleta trail and Faerie Glen Nature Reserve. Kissoonduth said the council was involved in various legal disputes - mainly regarding tenders - but was confident a number of these would be finalised soon, which could lead to at least R1.6 billion being released and made available for city development projects. He said a moratorium on action against illegal traders was due to expire on July 1 and stronger action could be expected. This would include dealing with hawkers at intersections and negotiations were continuing with bodies involved in identify areas where trading could and would not be allowed. A new gated community policy was expected to be released for public comment soon. Kissoonduth said that while the issue was a complex one, this policy would hopefully make for a more workable situation. Kissoonduth repeated that cable theft was not limited to the city and the solution lay in involving all municipalities, provincial authorities and the national ministry of safety and security. The city metro was hoping to get approval from Minister of Police Bheki Cele to implement a set of by-laws, similar to those adopted in Cape Town, in terms of which copper is declared a precious metal and metro police would be allowed to enter and search scrap dealers’ premises for stolen goods. In the first four months of this year the cost of cable theft to the metro amounted to R250million. Brett Hoppe, general manager of Time Square, responded to criticism of the casino complex and its operations by saying Sun International took such complaints very seriously and was committed to working with the community to make a difference. He said the casino was part of a R4.2bn development which had not only created jobs but with other developments around Menlyn Maine had brought in new amenities. He said they had advanced security technology in place in the area and they and other businesses shared information and intelligence with the police which had led to drug arrests and the recovery of stolen vehicles. See Page 7