This emerged during an inspection at Menlyn Park Shopping Centre yesterday, which is looking at issues such as lack of documentation, hiring of foreign nationals, compliance with legislation and the minimum wage. It was the second day of the two-week inspection, which started on Monday and will see inspectors visiting Menlyn, Kolonnade, Mall@Reds, The Grove, Wonderboom Junction, Irene Mall and Centurion Mall until June 29. The inspectors spoke to some employees regarding challenges they experienced. Jabulani Mue, an assistant manager at Blue Collar White Collar clothing at Menlyn Park, said the inspection was long overdue as many stores took advantage of workers. “We know how badly people are treated at other stores. You find people get fired just for calling in sick for a few days,” he said. Mue said what often made things worse was that because some workers had no formal contracts, they found it difficult to find recourse through the courts or departments. “The employers take advantage of people because they know the scarcity of jobs will have people accepting peanuts just to get anything at the end of the month.” Labour Department spokesperson Mishack Magakwe said employers not complying with the legislation and admittedly at fault would be afforded 14 working days to rectify the issues. He said, however, for those who failed to rectify issues within the specified time, the matter would be referred to the courts to issue an order of compliance. “Most employers want to avoid the unnecessary court action and the negative image that follows, so they end up toeing the line in most cases,” he said. Magakwe said the inspection was meant to ensure that wholesale and retail stores, especially in congested areas such as malls, were up to date with the compliance of the labour legislation. He said they often found that workers within the wholesale and retail sectors fell prey to employers’ non-compliance with the Basic Conditions of Employment Act and Occupational Health and Safety Act. “We are doing this campaign working alongside other departments to ensure we pin down employers who contravene the law and to protect contract and permanent workers.”