Mayor of that area Dixie Nciki said yesterday that the SAPS took samples of the stones - believed to be gold - to Pretoria for further investigation on Monday. “We are still waiting for the results,” Nciki said. In the meantime, authorities in southern KwaZulu-Natal moved to prevent a stampede of people to the small village. Thousands of people have flocked to the site in Mbuthumeni village, outside the town of Harding, in the hope of striking it rich after glittering yellow rocks were discovered during rock excavations. Nciki said: “The local Inkosi of KwaMachi, Inkosi N Machi, first addressed the community about the dangers of mining the quarry and requested them to evacuate the site as it was dangerous for them to be there. “As the mayor, I’ve also visited the area several times to address the community on the safety issues, but the number of people descending to the area keeps on increasing each day.” Nciki said they engaged with the Ugu District Municipality and have been working with its disaster management team and the SAPS to prevent villagers from visiting the sites as they were not safe. “The disaster management team, together with the SAPS, have used barbed wire to barricade the area until the results indicating if the stones are gold are out” According to reports, villagers believe that the gold found there could change their lives, given the high levels of unemployment in the area. The gold rush comes after construction workers digging for quarry stones meant for the paving of gravel roads last week discovered yellow, glittering rocks in the area that resembled gold. Since Wednesday last week locals have been digging for what they believe is gold. “Furthermore, the municipality has also engaged the Department of Co-operative Governance and Traditional Affairs, the Department of Economic Development and the Department of Minerals about this story, seeking for their advice and intervention as well,” Nciki added. “I would also like to express my deepest concern on the issue of two community members who were injured yesterday while they were mining the quarry. “The two men were rushed to the hospital. "According to the reports that we received from the local hospital, St Andrews, they were admitted and are still being treated for the injuries sustained.” - African News Agency (ANA)