This after Mtenje, his wife and two daughters lived for more than a decade in three tents issued to them in 2006 by the City of Tshwane. When the tents became torn and inhabitable, he started to erect a structure on the property. This was, however, later demolished by the landowner, Anna Erasmus. She obtained an interim court order last year, preventing the family from further constructing the
structure. She also wanted the family to vacate the property. Mtenje, meanwhile, hit back with a counter application, and with the help of Lawyers for Human Rights, said the family had the right to remain on the property in terms of the Extension of Security of Tenure Act (Esta). Mtenje also applied for an order that Erasmus had to replace the structure which he had built, to its original state before it was partly demolished. He asked the court to order that they be allowed to occupy the structure until they were either lawfully evicted in terms of Esta, or decided themselves they wanted to move. It was not disputed that Erasmus is the registered owner of the property. Mtenje came to live on the property in 1996 when he rented a room at a monthly rent of R50. According to Erasmus, the relationship between Mtenje and her and her late husband soured over time. Mtenje ran a spaza shop from the property and Erasmus was not happy with this. She at the time had a building in which he lived, which she demolished. But he and his family then stayed in three army tents they had received from the City. When this became uninhabitable after a decade, he proceeded to erect another structure, which was again partly demolished by Erasmus. She said the structure was illegal and an eyesore on her property. Acting Judge MP Canca, who visited the property and noted the dilapidated tents, said Esta afforded an occupier a number of fundamental human rights, the first of which was human dignity, while it limited a landowner’s rights. “The mere fact that Erasmus owns the land might have given her a clear right to launch the application under Roman Dutch Law. “However, this is no longer the position in our new constitutional dispensation.” The judge said Mtenje also had rights regarding the land, namely to live on it with dignity. This right had to be balanced with that of Erasmus as land owner. The judge also said Mtenje’s rights as occupier reduced the extent of rights Erasmus had as the owner of the land. The judge found that Mtenje had made out a case for the replacement of the demolished building, as landowners are obliged to house Esta occupiers in accommodation that accords with their rights to dignity. “There is a constitutional duty on Erasmus to tolerate the Mtenje family’s presence on the property and allow them, in the absence of another suitable shelter, to complete the construction of his informal structure. The parties must, however, engage meaningfully with each other on all relevant aspects relating to the structure and the work to be done for its completion, before any further work may be undertaken.” The judge concluded that if the parties could not see eye to eye on this, they could return to court.