He arrived in the country on Friday ahead of the two-day session hosted by Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau. “The focus of the G7 Outreach meeting on healthy, productive and resilient oceans and seas, coasts and communities, is in line with the goals outlined in South Africa’s National Development Plan and speaks to the country’s efforts to stimulate economic growth and job creation by, among others, unlocking the oceans economy through Operation Phakisa,” said the Presidency. South Africa’s participation in the G7 Leaders’ Summit Outreach signals its renewed engagement in the Group’s Outreach initiative. Ramaphosa started his visit by engaging with investors and business people in Toronto. He told guests at the engagement that South Africa, which saw Canada as a strategic partner, had entered a new era in which the economy was centre stage. “Business confidence and investor sentiment are improving. Government is responding to create a dynamic and enabling business environment that will promote greater productive investment. “South Africa is undertaking measures to set the economy on a new path of growth, employment and transformation. We are moving swiftly to restore credibility, improve governance and implement turn-around strategies at South Africa’s state-owned enterprises,” he said. Ramaphosa said the government was working to guide the economy towards a more sustainable 
growth trajectory and to restore South Africa to investment grade status. “We are working to significantly increase the levels of fixed investment in the economy. :We know that foreign direct investment is a critical driver of economic growth for both developing and developed economies. On Saturday, Ramaphosa participated in a working session at Le Manoir Richelieu in La Malbaie in the Charlevoix region followed by a working lunch. The G7 consists of Canada, the US, Japan, the UK, Germany, France and Italy. Other states, the leaders of which have been invited to participate in the Leaders’ Summit Outreach, include Kenya, Senegal, Rwanda, Seychelles, Haiti, Bangladesh, Vietnam, Samoa, Argentina, Norway and Jamaica. - SAnews.gov.za