The PSA said yesterday that its 240000 members would down tools on Monday over wages in what the union dubbed a “day of rage” after it refused to sign the public service three-year wage deal with government. “We are expecting disruptions in the economy and closing down of all border gates. “We are not going to call on health sector workers to strike as they are an essential service but we are going to target where it hurts the most,” PSA deputy general manager Tahir Maepa said in Centurion. The union has served notice to strike at the Public Sector Co-ordinating Bargaining Council. It extended an invitation to all other unions that rejected signing the agreement to “join the defiance strike action”. PSA general manager Ivan Fredericks said months of negotiations at the Public Sector Co-ordinating Bargaining Council had been “staged”. “Reflecting on these negotiations, from the beginning these negotiations might have been a staged process between the state, alliance partner Cosatu and even the Bargaining Council secretary, a previous representative of Cosatu affiliate Popcru,” charged Fredericks. “Looking at items contained in the initial demand by Cosatu and the final conclusion and response (from the state), it is very clear that the negotiations outcome had been determined (beforehand).” The three-year deal includes a 7% increase for junior employees, 6.5% for mid-level employees and 6% for senior staff for 2018/19. The second and third year increases will be on a sliding scale. The PSA has demanded a 10% increase for categories 1 to 10 and 8% for those in higher categories 10 to 12, a R1500 housing subsidy and an increased medical aid subsidy. Maepa accused Public Service Minister Ayanda Dlodlo of “hypocrisy” after she tweeted on the agreement signed with unions. Dlodlo had tweeted: “The tabled agreement has now been signed by 48.8% of the unions. It needs just 1.3% more to enjoy majority support. Only PSA has rejected the agreement, with 35.2% finalising their internal process and will sign soon.” - African News Agency (ANA)