Danie de Wet and his wife, Liezl, expressed their profound gratitude, particularly to trauma surgeon Professor Kenneth Boffard, his team and the Netcare 911 paramedics who worked together to save his life after the freak accident in January 2015. “This is not only from me; I am speaking on behalf of so many patients treated here at Netcare Milpark Hospital,” De Wet said just days after completing the 90km ultra-marathon, as he handed over the framed medal to Professor Boffard, director of the internationally renowned trauma programme at the facility. “I want to thank you for the professional and caring manner in which all of you - including the paramedics, trauma surgeons and nurses, as well as other healthcare professionals - dedicated yourselves to saving other people.” De Wet, an engineering supervisor, was airlifted to Netcare Milpark Hospital after being impaled on a nearly 2m metal industrial crowbar, known as a “gwala”, 3.5km underground at a mine in Carletonville. He had been using the gwala while washing out an underground dam when he suddenly slipped and the metal bar penetrated his body, entering the groin and sticking out just below his shoulder blade. He was airlifted to hospital and despite the horrible injury, walked out of the hospital 19 days later. “We can’t stop saying thank you, not only for saving my life but, through the grace of God, for giving me a second chance to be a father, a good husband and share my story of hope with others,” De Wet said. He completed the ultra-marathon in 11 hours and 30 minutes. “I must say the race was tough. When I reached 60km, I really started to feel exhausted but my wife and the many people supporting me gave me the inner strength to carry on and finish the race.” Boffard, the secretary-general of the International Society of Surgery, spoke about the unusual case and the extraordinary patient whose remarkable recovery made international headlines. “This is the ‘gwala’ that formed an intimate association, for want of a better term, with Mr De Wet that day in January 2015,” he said, picking up the long, galvanised metal rod that the medical team extracted from De Wet’s body. De Wet has since donated the gwala to the hospital’s trauma centre as a mark of his appreciation and a symbol of hope for other trauma injury survivors. “When we were getting ready to discharge him, I spoke to Mr De Wet and told him: ‘Now you’re getting well again and I’m going to give you a challenge. Before the accident, you were a runner and super-fit, and now you are going to get well, and the problem of being well is that it comes with responsibilities,” Boffard recounted.  “One of those responsibilities is my challenge to you: ‘run the Comrades again’  and, can you believe he took me seriously?” He also recalled that he was in Sweden when news reached him that De Wet had qualified for the 2018 Comrades
Marathon - his first since his accident and seventh Comrades overall.