Noni Mokati Pretoria this week played host for the very first time to delegates from eastern China's province of Zhejiang. The visit by the business delegation was headed by Che Jun, secretary of the Communist Party of China's Zhejiang's provincial committee. 
It comes a few weeks ahead of the much-anticipated 10th BRICS Summit scheduled to take place in July. Jun, who during his speech at the Chinese Embassy in Arcadia pointed out that he was visiting the country for the very first time, said bilateral agreements between the People's Republic of China and SA were important, particularly following Chinese President Xi Jinping's visit in 2013 and in the midst of the 20th anniversary of diplomatic ties between the two countries. China is currently South African's largest trading partner. Jun, used the platform to outline his province's ambitions about this country including investment and education prospects. "An African Studies Institute established in Zhejiang's Normal University is a think-tank and a talent cultivation base for Africa.  Jinhua City, where the university is located, works for a Sino-Africa cultural cooperation demonstration zone. We hope to establish a relationship with relative organisations in SA  to form a partnership for bilateral friendly exchange," he said. There are already students from across the country, including staff members from Pretoria University who are on an exchange programme and studying at universities in Zhejiang's capital city of  Hangzhou. The students left the country last year with some expected to return after three years. Jun said Zhejiang, whose Gross Domestic Product ranks fourth in China, boasts rich historical and cultural resources adding his country was keen on introducing these to South Africans. Chinese ambassador Lin Songtian said: "I am proud that China-South Africa relations have developed four advantages namely political mutual trust, mutually beneficial cooperation, people-to-people friendships and international coordination." Songtian added the Chinese community was elated that President Cyril Ramaphosa has committed himself to strengthening and improving government efficiency as well as creating a positive investment environment in order to attract investors. "China will continue to encourage and support more Chinese investors to participate in the Investment Conference and Jobs Summit... We are also looking forward to, with great enthusiasm, more effective measures that will be taken by the South African government to fight against crime for a safe and secure SA....," he said. Economic Development Minister Ebrahim Patel told Jun that as the delegation embarks on investment opportunities, that it also takes time out to explore the beauty of this country including visiting the Cradle of Humankind, which he said, they should regard as their second home as this is where humans originate from. Meanwhile, Ramaphosa will visit China in September for the  Forum on China Africa Co-operation (FOCAC)  Beijing Summit in September. 
This will be the first state visit between Ramaphosa and Jinping after former President Jacob Zuma left office early this year.