These were the words of Emilar Gandhi, public policy manager for the SADC region at Facebook. Thinking about the risks that the youth are exposed to while using social media has not been highlighted by social media platforms such as Twitter, Facebook or WhatsApp over the years but this is about to change. That is because Facebook alongside Digify Africa, a digital training initiative that offers practical, real-world learning experiences delivered by young digital professionals, are working together to make the internet safer for young people. Facebook last month  launched a new dedicated online youth safety programme which aims to train 1000 South Africans between the ages of 13 and 18 across high schools and youth groups nationwide. The programme challenges the youth to understand how they can stay safe online, provide practical tips and to provide 
peer-to-peer support. According to Gandhi, the programmed called Ilizwe Lam meaning “My World” in isiXhosa underscores Facebook’s ongoing local commitment to youth safety and education. The programme was created in consultation with youth groupsand will feature interactive and engaging learning modules providing advice on how to make the most of the opportunities on the internet, while enjoying protection from issues such as scams and harassment. Head of strategy at Digify Africa, Qhakaza Mthembu, said the digital economy was growing fast in Africa and also opening up a world of opportunity for young South Africans. “We’re really proud to have co-created this programme with young South Africans, to enable them to safely tap into all the resources of the online universe,” said Mthembu. “Increasing awareness and ensuring that young people feel empowered is important and it’s something we’re committed to. That is why I’m proud to be launching Ilizwe Lam to form part of the work Facebook is already doing in South Africa,” she said. The goal was to have an ever-growing resource for younger users to learn about how best to experience the platform. “The launch of the youth portal is part of our ongoing commitment and effort of ensuring the safety of people who make use of our platform,” she explained. Gandhi mentioned that the Facebook youth portal includes education through guides on how to get the most out of products like pages, groups, events and profiles, while staying safe; peer voices, the first person accounts from teens around the world about how they are using technology in powerful ways, and means to control your experience. Legal adviser and associate at the Digital Law firm, Sarah Hoffman, said it was a fantastic initiative coming from one of the worlds biggest social media platforms. “A lot of the work that we do is within the scope of educating young people about the risks of being on social media and how to use social media. “They are running this pilot programme and they are going to train young people to be able to protect themselves and hopefully, if it’s successful, they will roll it out on a much bigger scale,” said 
Hoffman. She added that the portal was a great opportunity to address the issues facing young people online such as cyber-bullying, sexting and identify theft. “I think it’s absolutely critical that young people should not be allowed to use social media before they have had some kind of 
education about the risks,” she 
said. Hoffman added that on a daily basis, the firm sees young and old people 
sharing intimate content online that can be used as a bullying tool, depending on the 
circumstances. “We also see a number of anonymous pages opened by people at which people are defamed and we help people to try close those accounts. “We have very powerful mobile devices which give us access to international, permanent public platforms. “In the same way we would not drive a car without a learners’ licence, I don’t believe people should go on social media or have a smart phone before they know the risks of using these devices. Unfortunately that is not the case,” she said. Serious reputational risks follow once the content makes its way online, she said, highlighting that the key issues include cyberbullying and sexting. “It is a fantastic initiative by Facebook and it’s their social responsibility because they are providing the platforms. Just as cigarette companies have to provide warnings about the risks of buying cigarettes, it is Facebook’s responsibility to educate people about how to use their platform well. It still can be used for good purposes but without the education component we are all at extreme risk,” she added. The newly-formed training programme will include modules featuring content such as looking after your digital footprint and managing your privacy online; what to do when you encounter inappropriate content or behaviour on social media. How to decide what you share 
online. What to do when you share something online that you regret, dealing with cyber-bullying, harassment and scams, examples of young digital hustlers furthering their studies and careers by accessing 
content and making connections online.