This follows a shock move by its government, which overturned a 2016 decision to suspend the supposed cull. The killing is due to start this month and is being marketed by a South African hunting outfitter. It is being labelled by conservationists as barbaric. Any involvement from local hunters will add to considerable reputational damage on an international front. Two South African hunting associations that embrace canned lion hunting - the Professional Hunters’ Association of South Africa and Confederation of Hunting Associations of South Africa - recently lost an appeal to retain their membership to Europe’s top hunting organisation and were thrown out of the International Council for Game and Wildlife Conservation for breach of policy. In the US, a South African trophy hunting outfitter, Hanno van Rensburg, was charged with leading and participating in the illegal hunt of an African elephant in Zimbabwe’s Gonarezhou National Park. His client, Paul Ross Jackson, a former vice president of Dallas Safari Club, pleaded guilty and was fined $25000 (R315000) for violating the Endangered Species Act in connection with the same hunt. Born Free Foundation, which led efforts to stop the slaughter in 2016, is calling for the authorities to urgently re-consider the cull. According to its president, Will Travers, “they are, apparently, using the same flawed rational for the slaughter as last time - a preventative measure to avoid a future outbreak of anthrax, combined with an assertion that low rainfall will exacerbate the situation”. No evidence “They also appear not to have informed key stakeholders in the Luangwa Valley, including the Luangwa Safari Association and the District Commissioner.” According to Born Free, Zambia’s Department of National Parks and Wildlife has failed to provide evidence demonstrating that there is overpopulation. It says no information has 
been provided to show that river 
levels and water flow in the Luangwa River are abnormally low and that there is no scientific evidence to show that a hippo 
cull would prevent an outbreak of anthrax. According to a post on africahunting.com, Umlilo Safaris is offering five hippos per hunter. The hunts will run from this month until the end of October and are due to continue until 2022. “The count that we were given was that in a stretch of 250km, over 16000 hippo were counted. If you have been there in the dry season the system is overpopulated. “Culling of wildlife is not an option. It is a primitive wildlife 
conservation strategy,” the Zambian Green Party’s president, 
Peter Sinkamba said. “The Luangwa Valley is not overpopulated as they claim. “The hippo population in that conservation area has dwindled by about 14% to 20% in the last 20 years, motivated by mainly poor conservation policies, strategies and allocation of financial and human resources. “The culling policy is motivated by pure greed.” Hippos are listed as “vulnerable” on the IUCN Red List, with an estimated population of 115000 to 130000 animals. As efforts increase to end the trade in elephant ivory, hippos 
are increasingly being targeted for their teeth. - The Conservation Trust