In the attacks - two at the same mall - jewellery and electronic outlets were the hardest hit. According to mall security guards, who did not want  to be named as they were not authorised to speak to the media, the trends of attacks have changed, and the crimes were no longer happening during holidays. “We worry for our lives; first it was cash-in-transits, now this,” a guard said. Brooklyn police spokesperson Colette Weilbach said the attacks were not necessarily an indication of a new and burgeoning crime trend, nor should they be seen as evidence that mall robberies were out of control. “It is something that has always been around, but two malls in two weeks does call for great concern. "We have had a meeting with the major malls in the city to beef up security. “We have even met as the seven clusters to find a suitable way to further prevent the attacks,” Weilbach said. The Vault jewellery store at Menlyn Shopping Centre was attacked by armed criminals on Monday evening. In video footage which started circulating soon after the incident, four men, who were wearing beanies and hats, were seen entering the mall and going directly to the jewellery store. They started smashing a window with a hammer numerous times while people screamed in the background. The suspects fired shots before speeding off when security officers tried to stop them. Police said they escaped with an unknown number of Rolex watches. The general manager of Menlyn Park Shopping Centre, Olive Ndebele, said the situation was calm, and trading continued as normal yesterday. “The safety and security of our tenants, customers and employees continues to be of utmost priority at Menlyn Park Shopping Centre. This is an ongoing investigation and the suspects are still at large. “Anybody who can assist the Brooklyn SAPS with information can contact the station,” said Weilbach. Last Wednesday at the Grove Mall, about 38 laptops were stolen from an electronics store. Five men gained entry to an Incredible Connection store at around 11am using the back entrance, according to Silverton police spokesperson Captain Jan Sepato. “The door they used to gain entrance is not easily accessible for security reasons, but one of the men posed as a delivery man dressed in the store’s uniform and a security guard opened the door for him,” he said. After the door was opened, the man pointed a gun at the guard and store manager. He kept the door open for his armed accomplices to enter. The men then assaulted the security guard and the manager and forced them to open the store’s laptop storage area. The men had a duvet cover which they used to carry the stolen items. They made their getaway in a white Isuzu single-cab bakkie. Also last Wednesday at Menlyn, three armed men gained entry to a shop by breaking a window with a pickaxe. The robbers escaped with some jewellery and fled in a VW Golf GTi. Weilbach said the four men fired shots at security guards as they escaped from the centre in two cars, the second a white BMW. She said no one was injured in the shooting. Weilbach said the crimes were becoming increasingly sophisticated, with inside information playing an increasingly prominent role. She added that what was particularly different this time around was that the malls were being hit in June, when they were normally attacked before Easter and during the festive season.