JAMES MAHLOKWANE THE school where an Atteridgeville boy, 10, was allegedly raped and murdered in April held a health awareness day together with the Gauteng Department of Health, the City and the local child protection unit. Parents and pupils of N’wa-Mhira Primary School pleased community members this morning when they took to the streets of the Saulsville school to exercise and boost their health. Educators and health and child protection professionals escorted the group on what could have been the first health walk or exercise for many of them. Principal Mashudu Mulaudzi said the health awareness campaign sought to make the pupils and their parents aware of the importance of leading healthy lifestyles and maximising efforts to keep children safe at home and in the community. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  “We are proud to have received the attention of parents who made it to the event. We understand that some parents probably could not make it because they had to go to work. Ideally we would like to have more parents so that the knowledge shared here is taken and taught at home,” “The learners and parents were also taught about human trafficking and keeping children safe. Learners were encouraged to be vocal about any experienced problems or challenges because not talking is what allows their challenges to worsen. This day went beyond just keeping the learners safe to generally keeping good health. Parents learned about the junk food they need to stop feeding their children because some of that food caused childhood obesity and high blood pressure,” said Mulaudzi. Mulaudzi was proud to see his pupils splitting into groups and heading into different directions of the township for the sole purpose of keeping in good health. The groups went out singing, dancing, stretching and did various exercises. The City’s Environmental health practitioner Phineas Nare said: “We teach children in the city about how the environment influences their health from an early age because we believe that’s where they must learn the basics. We taught the children about handling food and eradicating littering because they need to know now how that is bad for them and their environment,” Sithuthukisa Bonke Crisis Centre drug addiction counsellor, Moses Malatjie, said it was important for the children to also learn about the dangers of drug addiction from an early age. This Atteridgeville organisation offered local addicts free rehabilitation and sent out staff to reach out to Tshwane communities and help those who needed assistance. The event was also attended by officials from the Gauteng Department of Health and Childhood Cancer Foundation of South Africa. The officials set up stalls to provide pupils and parents with advice and pamphlets to read at home.