This emerged after Parliament published a notice inviting members of the public to make written comments on a draft bill proposed by EFF leader Julius Malema to amend the South African Reserve Bank Act. This comes barely six months after the ANC took a resolution at its national conference that the South African Reserve Bank be 100% state owned. The nationalisation of mines had been one of campaign issues by the camp pushing for the election of Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma as the governing party’s president. Parliament said in a notice that Malema had already submitted a notice to introduce the South African Reserve Bank Amendment Bill. The move comes hot on the heels of another private member’s bill by Malema’s deputy Floyd Shivambu to amend the Banks Act to make it possible for state-owned companies to register in terms of that act and to conduct the business of a bank. According to the parliamentary notice, the South African Reserve Bank currently has some 650 shareholders other than the government. “The bill seeks to amend the act to make the state the sole holder of the shares of the bank.” The draft bill also provides for the president, in consultation with the minister of finance and Parliament, to appoint the governor, deputy governors and all other directors of the bank. The comments for the draft bill opened since on May 28 for at least 30 days. The public can e-mail their comments to Speaker Baleka Mbete at bmbete@parliament.gov.za and copy them to Gumani Tshimomola at gumanitk@gmail.com by not later than June 25. Neither Malema nor EFF spokesperson Mbuyiseni Ndlozi could be reached for comment. It will be the third time that the EFF has acted on resolutions taken by the ANC on certain issues. In December, the ANC conference noted that it was a historical anomaly that there were private shareholders of the Reserve Bank. “Conference resolves that the Reserve Bank should be 100% owned by the state. Government must develop a proposal to ensure full public ownership in a manner that does not benefit private shareholder speculators.” The party had also resolved that the expropriation of land without compensation should be among the mechanisms available to government to give effect to land reform and redistribution. Parliament has started a process to consider mechanism to enable expropriation of land without compensation after Malema’s motion on the matter was adopted earlier this year. There is also another bill sponsored by the EFF on the establishment of a state bank.