And yesterday, it emerged that the man accused of murdering him and disposing of his body may be acquitted on Monday. Matthew Benson, 24, who has been in jail pending his trial since the incident on August 2, 2016, was freed from prison by Acting Judge JJ Hattingh. The judge, however, warned Benson to be back in court on Monday for the judgment. The State cross-examined Benson for less than 10 minutes while he was in the witness box and did not oppose his release. Prosecutor Alicia Roos also could not present any evidence that indicated that Benson had killed Ndlovu or that he had disposed of the body afterwards. Benson’s advocate, Jaap Cilliers SC, after the closure of the State’s case, asked the court for his client’s discharge as there was no evidence against him. Judge Hattingh refused this, but did not provide reasons for his refusal. Benson took the stand, where he testified that he saw two men on his father’s farm that day. He said he called out to them to stop, as they were trespassing. He said he wanted to hand them over to the police. The two, whom he could not identify, ran away through some bushes. He said he did not go after them. Benson said they had a problem with trespassers on the farm and in the past he called the police about this. Ndlovu was apparently shot in the leg that day when he and his two friends, Benny Lerumo and Thabiso Shole, went to steal oranges and scrap metal on the Benson family farm and an adjacent farm. They testified that although they carried their friend for a distance after he was shot, they left him behind when he collapsed. They fled to their homes in a nearby township and told Ndlovu’s mother what had happened. He did not return home, and his mother reported him missing two days later. The police could not find Ndlovu or his body. Leromu later claimed that Benson was the attacker. He testified that Benson had shot at them with a rifle. Benson said he had his BB-gun with him that day, which only stung a person if it was fired. He said he did not own any other gun. Shole, who said he had, before this incident, seen Benson, could not identify him as their attacker. He said a white man had shot at them with a “very long gun”. Both Leromu and Shole also had different versions of where the shooting took place on the farm. Pistol cartridges were later found, but these could not be linked to Benson or anyone else on the farm. It also emerged that at the time of the alleged shooting, Benson was on the back of a motorbike on his way to the farmhouse. Police sniffer dogs, brought in to search the farm, could not locate the body. Cilliers said it would be a travesty of justice to keep Benson in jail given that the State could not argue for his conviction. He also said this was a case which attracted a lot of public attention.