Party leader John Moody said the budget would serve its purpose, of meeting the needs of the poor in different areas of the municipality. “Thousands of residents in areas like Hammanskraal, Mabopane, Winterveld and Bronkhorstspruit will now have access to electricity, water and better sanitation, where there was previously no investment in bulk infrastructure.” Mayor Solly Msimanga tabled a R36.8 billion budget last Thursday for the 2018/19 financial year and it was supported by 124 votes. Moody said: “The DA welcomes this pro-poor budget which will benefit the people of Tshwane. Tariffs will remain low and more will be invested in infrastructure that will enable opportunities.” He said the vote ended months of public participation meetings, where the City’s financial plans were discussed with residents. “Although the National Energy Regulator (Nersa) and Rand Water have proposed electricity and water tariff increases of 7.32% and 6.5%, respectively, the City will absorb a part of these tariff charges by cutting all unnecessary expenditure. “The DA-led City of Tshwane will therefore only charge residents 6.5% for electricity and 10% for water, to assist poor people who cannot afford basic services,” he said. During his budget speech Msimanga said the City would absorb part of the tariffs levied to residents, but was chastised by the ANC for making the move appear to be a great feat under his administration. The ANC said the move was to be expected from any municipality and was therefore not surprising. Party councillor Refilwe Kekana said: “For him to say that they have absorbed 2.2% is nothing out of the ordinary. It is something that is done under normal circumstances. Residents didn’t fully participate in public meetings, which looked into the draft budget.” She reiterated it was wrong on the part of the City to collect a cleaning levy for non-account holders in line with size of the bin. The ANC also slammed the DA-led administration for not spending its grants from the National Treasury, saying at least R156million had been returned to Treasury after it was not used for improving informal settlements. While the ANC registered its vote of no confidence in the budget, EFF councillors supported it on the basis that it would address some service delivery concerns raised in the party’s 2016 election manifesto. For example, the EFF hailed Msimanga’s administration for its intention to extend working hours in some of the City clinics. Moodey, on the other hand, said the City would put R122m towards creating the 23000 Expanded Public Works Programme (EPWP) jobs that were promised to residents. He said 16 000 people had already benefited from the City’s EPWP jobs initiative. He welcomed the move to inject R2bn into the Tshwane Metro Police Department’s crime-fighting
initiatives. “It won’t happen overnight, but the DA is working hard to bring change to the people of Tshwane. Through clean governance, the DA is committed to bringing about order that builds one South Africa for all.” He said the DA inherited a service delivery backlog owing to many years of ANC maladministration and illegal contracts. “These include the Peu Smart Meter Broadband contract that cost the City more than a billion rand a year. We have also ensured that municipal supply chain processes, which were never followed by the ANC administration, are now enforced,” he said.