Early in the morning, things appeared to be back to normal following intense protest action the day before, but before long it was back to square one when protesters started assembling. A group of elderly protesters, accompanied by members of the Tshwane Concerned Residents, demanded that operations be halted at the offices. Braving the chilly weather, some carrying water bottles and clad in layers of blankets, they trooped in with their walking sticks in protest against exorbitant water and electricity bills. Residents who wanted to pay their rent or make enquiries were turned away. This time an even heavier police contingency kept a close eye on the protesters. The residents carried placards saying “Take care of your elders, they took care of you”. After chanting for an hour, energy levels were clearly depleted. Some could be seen taking
medication. Asked why they would put themselves through such torment; 77-year-old Phillip Makweya, told Pretoria News it was time to take action again. He accused the city of not taking care of its elderly citizens, and that was evident in the lack of services. “We followed the correct procedures to invite the mayor (Solly Msimanga), but he repeatedly ignored them. Meetings were scheduled, but fell through without any explanation from the metro,” he said. Shirley Kutumela, 72, said she would normally pay R400 a month for her water, but since August last year, her bill had sky-rocketed to R5000, and then to R10000 in April. As the account balance kept growing, the pensioner could not keep up with the payments, she said. Last week, the City cut the water and electricity to her house in D6, Mamelodi West home after she failed to pay her bills. She was one of the many complainants who believed they should pay a flat rate and that the municipality was estimating their water usage and that their meters were faulty. She said the community was unable to afford the rates and that some were selling their houses because of that. Chairperson of Tshwane Concerned Residents, Oupa Mtshweni, said they were going to continue closing down the municipal offices until Msimanga addressed them. “How does he feel seeing our elders protest and march while they should be enjoying their last days?” Mtshweni said among other things, community members demanded the cancellation of the debt they owed. They also wanted to pay a flat rate of R40. Pretoria News