The Laudium clinic in conjunction with the City of Tshwane on Thursday hosted an open day to promote better healthcare among the community and also showcased services offered at the facility. Since 2009 the clinic has consistently received awards for its improved healthcare services to patients. The 2016/17 health audit report recently released by the Office of Health Standard Compliance, a watchdog body for health services, rated the clinic among the top five in the country. People came in dribs and drabs to be screened for early diagnosis on various communicable diseases such as TB, HIV, blood pressure, blood glucose and cholesterol. Clinic manager Maria Skosana said: "We are trying to inform patients about the services offered at the clinic so that they can be aware of what is happening here. We are also sharing with them the importance of a healthy lifestyle." She shared the good news that the clinic was rated among the top five in the country after it obtained more than an 80% performance for patients' satisfaction. "Patients are satisfied with the cleanliness of the facility, the good attitude of our staff, the availability of medication, the reasonable waiting time for patients and general services we offer," she said. Despite the achievements, Skosana said it was important for her staff not to rest on their laurels but to always strive for excellence in what they do. "We want to inform the community about the new development the clinic has put in place to improve our healthcare," she said. She said the clinic wanted to improve its appointment system to further reduce the waiting time for patients. The system would see a certain number of patients being booked for a consultation at a particular time. "The block booking will spread patients throughout the day and they don't have to sit from early in the morning until late. It is also going to improve the waiting time for patients," Skosana said. The open day gave the staff an opportunity to inform residents about the importance of their participation in the clinic committee. "We want them to share information about what is happening in the community with the clinic staff and also the staff to do likewise," Skosana said.