The company, Siyandisa Music,  had turned to the high court in Pretoria to interdict the Miriam Makeba Foundation as well as Lumumba and Zenzile from holding themselves out as the proprietors of the intellectual property and the associated rights that attach to the works of the music icon without its consent. It further wanted Sun International and the South African Hall of Fame to be interdicted from inducting Makeba into the hall of fame in the absence of the prior written approval of Siyandisa. But Judge Hans Fabricius ruled that Siyandisa’s application had failed on a point of law, based on provisions of the Trust Property Control Act. Makeba, known as Mama Africa, collapsed during a performance in Italy in 2008. The then 76-year-old later died from a heart attack while in hospital. Siyandisa Music claimed it had the exclusive rights to the singer's  intellectual property, consisting of depiction, personality and recording rights. It said these rights stemmed from Makeba taking steps to commercialise her intellectual property during her lifetime, to persist after her death. She was  alleged to have done this through the creation of both a trust and a company. But in a technical argument based on the law, her family said the ZM Makeba Trust and not Siyandisa Music was the lawful holder of Makeba’s intellectual property rights. The family's lawyer argued that in terms of the Trust Property Control Act, a trustee may only act in their capacity as such once authorised to do so in writing by the Master of the High Court. When Makeba was said to have entered into the licence agreement on behalf of the ZM Makeba Trust, she was not authorised to do so in writing by the Master of the High Court. It was argued that the agreement was accordingly void and any rights which the ZM Makeba Trust purported to have given licence to Siyandisa Music, including the rights to Makeba’s intellectual property, were not validly transferred to it. It was said that this being the legal position, Siyandisa Music was thus not entitled to the relief it seeks as it was not the legal holder of Makeba’s intellectual property rights. According to the family, the ZM Makeba Trust and no other party had the right to grant permission for the use of Makeba’s name. But Siyandisa maintained that the rights to the singer's name have been licensed to it by the Makeba Trust and that it thus had the “sole and exclusive” rights to her intellectual property. But Judge Fabricius said this did not alter the legal position based on the Trust Property Control Act. He said it was open to the applicant to launch another application, based on other grounds, if it chose to do so. Makeba’s family maintained that her legacy was not for sale.