And as part of commemorating Youth Day, the Pretoria News spoke to female students about their views on abortion, and while some said they would not hesitate to get rid of a pregnancy if it threatened their future and education, some said that could wait if a baby was on the 
way. Wits alumni and LLB degree holder Kedibone Mashatola said that when she fell pregnant during her second year in 2014, she decided to keep the baby, despite already battling the challenge of a demanding course and knowing pregnancy had its own stress. The Mabopane lass said she, like others she knew, chose to keep her pregnancy because she was a good Christian girl. The 24-year-old said that even though it did cross her mind to terminate the pregnancy, her reasons to keep baby Karabo, now 4, outweighed her reasons to terminate. “I kept her for two reasons; one because I’m Christian so I didn’t want to deal with the emotional burden, and also because her daddy was supportive and he was there throughout and was willing to do everything for me and the unborn baby; he was there 100%.” Having been to hell and back, including writing assignments in hospital because of what she described as the “worst pregnancy ever”, Mashatola said she graduated in record time. “I fell pregnant when I was in second year and in that year I think I only attended 10 classes. I could not attend all of them, I was so sick and my pregnancy was just the worst. I was in and out of hospital and it was just a lot,” she said. Accepting and having to deal with the embarrassed look from other students was also hard. “Also, it took me time to accept and to deal with it, and to be able to face the shame. Having to be strong and go on was not easy at all.” Apart from being sick and all, it was emotionally draining, she added. Tshwane University of Technology (TUT) student Petunia Tshabalala said she would keep a baby if she fell pregnant. Having lied to her boyfriend about being pregnant in her second year, Tshabalala said the thought of it put her under emotional trauma. “In 2nd year I lied about being pregnant in hopes to keep someone. Immature move, I know. I didn’t understand the emotional trauma I was setting myself up for, let alone the guy. I mean I taunted him for weeks.” The 25-year-old admitted she had mixed emotions about the topic of termination. “In some instances I understand why it needs to be done. Where a girl got pregnant through sexual assault; abortion should be considered for her well-being. Anyone who is not mentally fit to be a mother shouldn’t be forced to become one,” she said. She said if she fell pregnant she would keep it. “I would keep it; abortion is not the only option. I mean, there are adoption plans which one can consider. So if I have sex without a condom whereas I’m not on some sort of family planning, then it means I’m ready for whatever is to come, but abortion would be last on my mind. I personally wouldn’t do it, the emotional trauma is just not for me.” She would rather give the baby to a woman in need of children, she said. A first-year Language Practice student at TUT, Malindi Davhana, said keeping it would definitely be a “no-no”. Her strict up-bringing from a very religious family would make it impossible to keep the child. As this year marked 21 years of the Choice on Termination of Pregnancy Act in SA, it was revealed that second-trimester abortions remained a big challenge. Women have a right to safe abortion care up to the 12th week of pregnancy, and services can be provided by a registered midwife or a medical doctor with appropriate training. For the second trimester, which is from the 13th week, up to and including the 20th week of pregnancy, the woman’s request can only be attended to by a medical doctor, who makes an opinion based on conditions. Many women who need second-trimester abortions get turned away at public health facilities, and according to research conducted in Cape Town, 20% of women who were turned away were in their second trimester of pregnancy. According to a 2009 study, nurses blamed a complex booking system, under-resourced and over-burdened facilities, and the shortage of willing and appropriately trained providers.