Chaos reigned in Stinkwater near Hammanskraal on Friday when a group of ANC supporters disrupted a march organised by the DA to pile pressure on health authorities to account for the alleged disappearance of a baby born at a local clinic on May 29. The baby's mother Khombo Mhlongo claimed her baby went missing soon after she gave birth to him at Refentse clinic. Mhlongo, who hails from New Eersterust near Soshanguve, claimed that shortly after her son was born, the nurses took her premature baby away from her without her consent. The SAPS officers and metro police were called in during the march to quell tension between the two parties. DA regional leader in Tshwane Abel Tau said it was unfortunate that his party's supporters were stopped when they wanted to demand answers from health authorities regarding the alleged disappearance of the baby. "The ANC has mobilised to fight us. We have no idea why they would be fighting but we know for a fact that the clinic committee would always be a puppet of an instituion like this one. "The last time we came here we were locked out. Now they called the South African national Civic Organisation and all these community members to come and defend this nonsense that is happening here," he said. He said the baby's mother was still in the dark as to what had happened to her son. "This community is not outraged that this poor woman is being victimsed and she is not getting answers. She is not even getting counselling, as we speak. But they are willing to stand and defend people that we are saying we want to put pressure on and get the answers. That is the sad situation of what the ANC has become," he said. He said the department was supposed to have given answers last week but that had not happened. Local ANC councillor Alfred Phahlane said the issue of the missing baby was between the department of health and the concerned family. He denied that the ANC supporters were behind the action to disrupt the march. "As leaders of the community this is our clinic and our concern is that the clinic has patients and nurses and none of them have the powers to accept the memorandum. The community became angry after they heard that the DA will be marching to the clinic. They vowed that no one will be allowed to march to the clinic," he said. He said the DA supporters have the right to march but not to the clinic because they would disrupt services there. "We have agreed with the police that they would march at least 500 metres from the clinic. We are on the side of the community," he said. Tau said the health department had, so far, failed to make contact with the family to provide satisfactory answers. He claimed the clinic had also refused to respond to the family's questions. The DA has called for the immediate suspension of those involved in the missing baby. The DA was supposed to hand over a memorandum to the clinic manager, but on their arrival at the facility the gates were locked and they couldn't enter.