De Lille took the official opposition to court after it terminated her membership following a radio  interview. In the interview on April 26, De Lille told talk show host Eusebius McKaiser on CapeTalk and 702 she intended to quit the party should she clear her name. McKaiser asked De Lille: “If I hear you you are saying: ideally I want to clear my name that’s why I am going to court and if I win this battle and when I win it because I know I’ve done nothing wrong then the morning after I have won the court case then I will resign from the DA?” De Lille replied: “I will walk away. You summed it up correctly. Because really it is not about hanging on I’m serving there at the behest of the DA.” The party cited a clause 3.5.1.2 in its constitution, which says if a member publicly declares his or her intention to resign, then their membership ceases immediately. But the court reinstated De Lille to her position when she launched an urgent application. De Lille wants the High Court to reverse the party’s decision that her membership had ceased. DA federal deputy chairperson Natasha Mazzone previously said said De Lille would act in only a ceremonial role. Substantive governance decisions will be taken by the DA caucus in the interests of the people of Cape Town. De Lille was last week stripped of her executive mayoral powers by the City of Cape Town after the DA sponsored a motion. Her fellow councillors also turned their backs on De Lille when she tabled the city’s budget. The DA Caucus in the City of Cape Town has failed in a bid to pass a motion of no confidence against her. Attempts to reach De Lille were unsuccessful as her cellphone rang unanswered. DA caucus leader JP Smith declined to comment and referred questions to Mazzone or James Selfe who also could not be reached for comment. Political analyst Professor Somadoda Fikeni said regardless of the court outcome, De Lille has a political future. “That is certainly not with the DA. The question is whether she revives the ID or joins other bigger parties like the ANC or the EFF. She may also decide to go the NGO-route,” Fikeni said. “Prominent figures of that nature don’t just fade easily,” he said. Fikeni also said the DA has prided itself as a party of the rule of law but had found itself taking shortcuts and contradicted itself in handling the De Lille saga and other issues. He said the multi-pronged attack on De Lille could backfire on the DA. “It starts to question the credibility you have against her that is tangible. They are to haunt them when it comes to elections next year especially from the coloured and black voters.”