On Friday, Zuma will make his second appearance in the Durban High Court regarding his arms deal corruption charges. It has been reported that the former statesman was struggling to pay his legal fees. National Funeral Practitioners Association of SA (Nafupa SA) secretary Nkosenhle Shezi said the forum would make available the means to finance Zuma if he declares that he has financial problems. “We love Zuma and if we were to find that he has financial problems, we would try our best to assist him. “But right now he had not approached us for any kind of support,” said Shezi. President Cyril Ramaphosa had early this year said the state would pay for Zuma’s legal costs since the alleged crimes were committed while he was working for the state. In March, the DA approached the court demanding Zuma refund the state the R15.3million he'd spent to prevent the charges being reinstated. When Zuma appeared in court in April, scores of his supporters held a night vigil and marched to the court to support him dressed in their ANC regalia. This was despite the ANC’s national leadership instructing them not to associate party structures and colours with the case. “The night vigil would be between 6pm on Thursday to 6am on Friday. On Friday morning, we will march from King Dinuzulu Park to the high court,” Shezi said. KwaZulu-Natal’s ANC Youth League spokesperson Mandla Shange said the league would this week outline its programme for supporting Zuma. “People were not stopped from wearing party regalia if they go to court to support whoever they support,” said Shange. ANC provincial task team co-ordinator Sihle Zikalala said people would go to court as individuals to support Zuma. Bishop Vusi Dube, who leads Zuma’s religious support group, told Zuma in Nkandla last week that they will be praying during the night vigil. “We are telling you to be strong,” said Dube. Meanwhile, ANC factions in KZN were facing pressure to reach a compromise, which will see some powerful leaders being left out of the top five unity slate to be elected during the provincial conference at the University of Zululand in Richards Bay. Party activists said Zikalala should retain the provincial chairperson position uncontested. His rival Mike Mabuyakhulu should be elected deputy chairperson. “Super Zuma (former provincial secretary) and his former deputy Mluleki Ndobe do not feature on the unity slate,” the source said. Another ANC leader said the compromise was adopted when national executive committee members met regional and provincial leaders in Durban on Thursday. “Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma had tears in her eyes as she made an impassioned call for unity. She said while we are fighting, the IFP is winning by-elections in the province. “She reminded us that we ere not enemies, but comrades in the ANC,” said another source. Zikalala said comrades should be talking about being united. “We encourage unity discussions, because unity is crucial for the ANC. Branches are discussing who should hold which position, but they should be holding discussions and reaching agreements for the sake of uniting the party,” said Zikalala. Super Zuma said he was not aware of the unity slate that would sideline him. The ANC’s eThekwini Region said it hoped the conference would be a success for the sake of implementing party programmes. “It is crucial that the leadership to be elected ensure that the ANC registers a victory in the 2019 general elections,” said regional secretary Bheki Ntuli. Meanwhile, the SACP yesterday vowed it would defeat Zuma, accusing him of being at the centre of a campaign to weaken the ANC. The party, which held its central committee meeting at the weekend, said the ANC-led alliance's immediate priority was to “dismantle the networks of parasitic looting of public resources that flourished under “Zuma’s patronage”. SACP general secretary Blade Nzimande said the attempts to fight back the drive against corruption and state capture must not be underestimated, adding that they we linked to Zuma. “In many ways former president Zuma is at the heart of this counter-revolutionary fightback, together with a circle of discredited individuals, many themselves facing the likelihood of criminal prosecution. KwaZulu-Natal has become a seedbed for this counter-revolutionary agenda, but with tentacles spreading into other provinces,” Nzimande said.