Phalatse posted on Twitter on Monday: “I would like to declare that I am a friend of Israel, and the City of Joburg is a friend of Israel! Shalom Shalom!” This triggered a war of words on the social media site as DA supporters expressed their outrage while one pro-Israel user threatened to help break up the DA. “Your DA is falling apart at the seams... we have friends who are inside your party and cannot wait to find a way to destroy your hate filled party coming soon,” tweeted NO2BDS.ORG. The ANC condemned Phalatse’s comments. “We strongly condemn this behaviour by the MMC and distance ourselves unequivocally,” it said. “As the ANC in Johannesburg, we reiterate our solidarity with the heroic people of Palestine. We condemn Israel’s occupation of Palestine and the systematic oppression meted out to the Palestinian people for decades.” Joburg, which is run by the DA, has a twinning relationship with the city of Ramallah in the Israeli-occupied West Bank, which is the de facto headquarters of the Palestinian Authority. The EFF also said it was deeply disturbed by Phalatse’s comments. Her DA colleagues also condemned her. “I am going to lay charges. DA provincial leader John Moodey is going to lay charges,” DA MP Yusuf Cassim said. “If members believe a party member has exceeded their mandate, they have the right to lay charges.” Phalatse’s comments come amid Israel’s fight against the Boycott, Disinvestment and Sanctions (BDS) campaign, which seeks to sanction the country over its treatment of Palestinians and what the movement calls Israel’s apartheid policies. Israel believes South Africa is a pivotal player in strengthening BDS due to strong sympathy from its citizens for Palestinians, who they say are suffering in the same way as non-white South Africans during the apartheid era. Israel’s Ministry of Strategic Affairs recently sponsored a pro-
Israel campaign in South Africa after its Strategic Affairs Minister, Gilad Erdan, accused South Africa of supporting terrorists. The ministry, together with the Maccabi World Union, the Zionist Federation of South Africa and the local Jewish community, embarked on a pro-Israel campaign from June 3 to 10 which brought together over 1000 pro-Israel Jewish and Christian supporters. Phalatse’s pro-Israel stance was reportedly partly as a result of this publicity. The governing ANC has slammed what it calls Israel’s interference in South African politics. - African News Agency (ANA)