JAMES MAHLOKWANE THE National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) had no choice but to provisionally withdraw the case of fraud, corruption and money laundering against former acting police commissioner Khomotso Phahlane and his two co-accused after failing to secure a further three months postponement from the Specialised Commercial Crimes Court in Pretoria. This followed a heated debate between prosecutor advocate Dries van Rensburg and defence representatives, Piet du Plessis and advocate Piet van Wyk who sought to convince magistrate Nicca to Setshogoe to rule in their favour. The state wanted Setshogoe to grant it a postponement due to three pending forensic investigations that could add more suspects and new charges to the incomplete charge sheet. Meanwhile, the defence put a motion for the court to have the matter struck off the roll as it appeared to have been brought to court prematurely and investigations where sluggish. Setshogoe considered all compelling arguments from both sides equally and highlighted the implications that could arise on either side should she rule for postponement or to have the matter struck off the roll. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  She opted not to grant the state further postponement because the case was postponed several times since February this year. However, she chose not to have the matter struck off the roll as she acknowledged the seriousness of the case and the importance allowing justice to take its course. Motshogoe therefore ruled that the state and the defence discuss and agree on a date to start the trial in the courtroom. Subsequently, the state moved to provisionally withdraw the case due to the incompleteness of crucial forensic investigations it would need to include in trial. Phahlane, his wife, Beauty Phahlane and car dealer Durand Snyman allegedly had a corrupt deal whereby Snyman gave the Phahlane cars that were paid for by police contractor who received billions in forensic contracts.