Shivambu called Treasury’s deputy director-general Ismail Momoniat's presence at a meeting of Parliament’s portfolio committee on finance on Tuesday “un-
African”, because he said it undermined and disregarded African leaders at the Treasury. Shivambu asked why Momoniat was attending finance committee meetings, instead of the department’s director-general Dondo Mogajane. He charged that this undermined "African representativeness". Yesterday, the ANC's chief whip Jackson Mthembu entered the fray, condemning Shivambu’s “unwarranted and unsubstantiated utterances” at the meeting of the finance committee. “Mr Shivambu's comments border on racism and are highly derogatory towards the South African Indian community. "Mr Shivambu’s erratic behaviour towards non-Africans is cause for grave concern," Mthembu said. "Earlier this year, Mr Shivambu physically assaulted a white journalist for taking photos of him on the Parliament precinct. "This behaviour is utterly despicable from an MP who took an oath to uphold the constitution, which states that South Africa belongs to all who live in it. “Comrade Ismail Momoniat is a tried and tested cadre of the congress movement, who earned his stripes in the Struggle when it wasn't fashionable to do so," he pointed out. "Comrade Momoniat has always conducted himself as a consummate professional who is dedicated to serving his country through his work as the head of tax and financial sector policy at the National Treasury,” Mthembu said. In response Shivambu said: “I will never apologise for speaking. I said he (Momoniat) undermined African leadership. There’s nothing racist about that." He said those calling his comments racist were free to take him to the Equality Court. In March, Shivambu was also embroiled in controversy after his violent attack on a  journalist inside the parliamentary precinct. He later apologised and no criminal charges were laid against him. Parliament’s finance committee, through its chair Yunus Carrim, also condemned Shivambu's utterances. “The committee has persistently encouraged the Treasury to ensure that its senior officials are more representative of South Africa’s racial and gender demographics. It has also consistently called for the entire financial sector to be more demographically representative,” said Carrim. While Shivambu had been invited to these debates, Carrim said his “crude” attack on Momoniat was unwarranted and inconsistent with South Africa’s “non-racial principles necessary for a transformative agenda that addresses race, class and gender inequalities”. “Of course, you can’t have non-racialism without African leadership, but you also cannot exclude non-Africans simply on the basis of their race. What next? "Are we going to dismiss the contribution of Ahmed Kathrada, Joe Slovo, Helen Joseph and Dulcie September simply on the grounds of race? “We don’t have to compromise one iota on the need for African leadership, while accepting the role of outstanding public servants like Mr Momoniat,” said Carrim. He said the committee had no evidence that Momoniat was corrupt, as claimed by Shivambu. “In fact, the committee knows him to be an extremely hard working, honest, skilled and experienced official who served both the anti-apartheid Struggle and the new democracy selflessly. "The committee reaffirmed its confidence in Mr Momoniat this morning,” Carrim added. MPs were urged to guard against “adding fuel to the growing racial polarisation in the country”.