The police watchdog also sought clarity on which officers were precluded from doing so due to a conflict of interest. The issue came to the fore following the investigation into former police chief Khomotso Phahlane for corruption and fraud charges. Charges against him, his wife Beauty and used car dealership owner Durand Snyman have since been provisionally withdrawn. Ipid’s investigation against Phahlane faced serious and persistent obstruction from him and officers of the North West SAPS, who were apparently loyal to him. It is claimed that Phahlane and the officers close to him were involved in investigating those who investigated charges against him, and that forensic investigator Paul O’Sullivan and his colleague Sarah-Jane Trent were targeted as a result. Ipid head Robert McBride asked the court for an order declaring that it was unlawful or unconstitutional for any officer of the SAPS to undertake or oversee an investigation into a member of Ipid where SAPS officers have a personal interest in the investigation, or they themselves are subject of an Ipid investigation. Advocate Steven Budlender, appearing on behalf of Ipid, said this matter raised an important point of law regarding the interaction between SAPS and Ipid. The declaratory relief is sought against the backdrop of the investigation of three Ipid officers by a team of SAPS detectives in North West. Ipid said the North West police's investigation was unlawful as the SAPS was under investigation by the same Ipid members they were investigating. Apart from the declaratory order, Ipid is also asking the court to interdict the North West SAPS from overseeing the investigation of its officers. Phahlane and the head of the North West SAPS, Major-General Ntebo Mabula, have opposed the application. Phahlane said there was no conflict of interest as the cases Ipid was investigating against him were trumped-up “cold cases” instituted at the insistence of O’Sullivan and Trent. The morning was meanwhile spent on trying to formulate the correct wording of the order which the parties proposed the judge should use regarding the declaratory order. Advocate Piet de Jager SC said the parties were “very close to each other” in this regard. According to him, section 25 of the Ipid Act was clear that there should not be a conflict of interest and that there should be a full disclosure of a possible clash of interest before a case was investigated. Judgment was reserved on the entire application.