“It exposes 16 year olds to the sexual conduct depicted in the film,” Judge Joseph Raulinga said in the Gauteng High Court, Pretoria, yesterday. However, he set aside the X-rating  reclassification of the film by the Film and Publication Appeal Tribunal. This is on the grounds that the tribunal did not in law have the power to consider the appeal and reclassify the film. He also found that the process in arriving at this classification was legally flawed. The judge said if the appeal tribunal was dissatisfied with the Film and Publication Board’s classification of a 16 age restriction, their remedy was to bring a judicial review of the board’s decision. The practical effect of this judgment is that Inxeba is now back to a 16 age restriction. The court earlier this month by agreement between the parties temporarily lifted the X-rating given to Inxeba. It was allowed back on mainstream cinema screens with an 18 age restriction, pending the outcome of these proceedings. The appeal tribunal in February this year reclassified the film to an X18 SNLVP rating, which meant it was classified as pornography. The film was released in July last year and caused an outcry by cultural groups, including the Congress of Traditional Leaders of South Africa and the South African Healers Association. They turned to the appeal tribunal to appeal against the classification of the film by the Film and Publication Board as 16 LS. The appeal tribunal in February this year then reclassified it to an X-rating. Film producers Indigenous Film Distribution and Urucu Media, turned to the the court to review and set aside the X-rated classification. Judge Raulinga said that at the heart of this application is the issue of diversity, triggered by the publication and viewing of the film in cinemas. “This application concerns the balancing of two parallel equations, which are by all means not always equal - the right to cultural right and the right to freedom of expression,” the judge said. The main argument by the film producers was that the classification as hardcore pornography meant that the film could only be viewed at “adult premises” and no longer at mainstream cinemas. Inxeba has won multiple awards at festivals across the world and it has recently swept up awards at the South African Film and Television Awards at Sun City. The board’s appeal tribunal, in reclassifying the film to pornography status, found that it held no artistic merit and that it contained three graphic sexual scenes. The film is set in rural Eastern Cape and the action is based on a Xhosa initiation school and the interaction between the people. There are various sex scenes in the film in the form of homosexual activity. The ritual of initiation or circumcision is central to the Xhosa people and the practice is a right of passage to manhood. Judge Raulinga said initiation or circumcision is believed to be sacred by the majority of South Africans. Sexual conduct is a taboo subject in this context, which should not be spoken about, let alone practised. It is also believed that any pre-exposure to children under 18 would contribute to the gradual extinction of this practice. Judge Raulinga, who viewed the film before hearing the application, said there was no doubt that in the context of this case, the right to freedom of expression had an effect on the rights of the Xhosa traditional group. He said the film included language which was degrading to Xhosa women and it exposed women to societal violence such as rape. “It contains harmful scenes which could cause tensions within the Xhosa community and even within the broader African community. By implication it has an effect on the rights of the Xhosa traditional group,” the judge said. However, he concluded that the appeal tribunal did not have the jurisdiction to reclassify the film and therefore he granted the review.