This was the warning issued by Mike Mlengana, director-general of the Department of Agriculture, at the first summit on farm killings, stock theft and murders attended by a cross section of South African farmers in Pretoria yesterday. In a show of unity, black and white farmers appealed to the government and police to help them fight farm killings and stock theft. The farmers told the government that farm killings and stock theft knew no race nor colour. Dr Vuyo Mahlati, president of the African Farmers Association of SA (Afasa), also alerted the government and police about the plight of single mothers, particularly black farmers living in rural areas, falling prey to the attacks and murders. Mlengana endorsed the call during his address to the aggrieved farmers and other interested parties such as the Agriculture Research Council, law enforcement agencies and the departments of Justice and of Rural Development and Land Reform. “This ongoing scourge of criminal attacks in the farming community is causing serious damage and uncertainty which may affect jobs, economic growth and food security in the country,” Mlengana said. "We remain concerned about the lack of stability within the farming communities as a result of farm killings and stock theft. We may fail our nation, if we don’t act now in fighting against any form of violence against farm owners and workers." But Mlengana was pleased with recent statistics revealed by Police Minister Bheki Cele, showing a decrease of murders during farm attacks. Earlier, farmers accused police of failing the rural farming community. The police were also accused of being part of syndicates responsible for stock theft. Vusumuzi Zondo, a black commercial farmer in Mpumalanga, said cross-border stock theft between Piet Retief and Swaziland continued unabated, with “little police action” to stop criminals. Du Preez Vilakazi, another black commercial and senior member of Black Business Council in Pietermaritzburg, said black farmers in their district had formed a WhatsApp group to prevent and to assist each other during attacks. The farmers complained about the alleged lack of police visibility and strategies to profile the perpetrators of crime. The allegations prompted Brigadier John Kgopodithata, national section head of the Stock Theft and Endangered Species Unit in the police, to tell farmers to personally contact him when experiencing difficulties at police stations responsible for rural safety. Kgopodithata admitted several police (stations) in the Eastern Cape and KwaZulu-Natal were not implementing their rural safety strategy but said they would visit them later this month and in July to crack the whip. Police were securing convictions against these crimes, he insisted. But the farmers were adamant that almost 70% of farmers did not report crimes due to lack of police action. Mlengana encouraged farmers to report the crimes to the police. “Stock theft has become a business and is rising at an alarming rate. There are clear indications of syndicate involvement.”