Instead of sharing the city and country with football players and fans from all over the world, it will be songbirds practising their notes. And instead of goals being scored, it will be high notes being hit this time around. The City of Tshwane last night launched the 10th World Choir Games, the greatest choral event, to be held in the capital next month. South Africa will be the first African country to welcome hundreds of choirs from across the globe which will participate in the competition. The two-week festival from July 4-14 is expected to encompass everything from folklore to chanting to barbershop quartets. During the launch at Sun Arena, Menlyn Maine, Executive Mayor Solly Msimanga said: “We are the only nation in the world that sings when we are unhappy, and equally sing when we are happy. So it’s only befitting that we host the World Choir Games.” He said Pretoria was blessed with musical talents, from Mamelodi all the way to Atteridgeville. “You cannot mention Pretoria and not mention jazz and choral music; it’s in our DNA,” he told the crowd. The Games will feature 16000 participants, bringing family and friends together for the musical fest. This year, more than 300 choirs from 60 countries will take part in 500 competition concerts and 50 friendship performances. The City said it was expecting 40000 visitors directly linked to the choirs, and a further 40000 coming to support the event and related programmes. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  The impact study has estimated the event should produce more than 150000 visitors a day. The direct spending stimulus is estimated to bring in R300million, with an indirect economic impact of more than R455m. Msimanga said tourism was one of the capital’s key economic drivers, and the City planned to ensure the travel and tourism sector played an important role during the Games. “We want to encourage all our visitors to travel around our capital city. "Listen to the fabulous music of our townships, hear the stories of our city, taste the variety of foods we eat, and learn about our history and heritage.” This milestone will come on the back of the City’s hosting of Sustainability Week, during which 35 mayors from various African capital cities have converged on the capital to delve into the interlinkages between sustainable development, climate change and poverty reduction in the shared belief that African cities are at the forefront of change in Africa. On July 8, the City will be hosting, with Sun International, the Africa Celebrates concert of all our African and community choirs. Here you will be asked to pay an entrance fee - a pair of shoes, a toiletry bag or a blanket, which will be donated to the needy. “We want to show the world that we are indeed a city that lives by the philosophy Re a Tshwane,” said Msimanga.