Constitutional law expert Emeritus Professor Shadrack Gutto yesterday told Independent Media that Zuma could not dictate to the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA), National Director of Public Prosecutions Shaun Abrahams and the KwaZulu-Natal High Court on when he should be prosecuted. This follows Abrahams’s decision to decline Zuma’s request for a stay of prosecution until the matter of his legal costs is clarified. Gutto said Zuma was being pre-emptive of the court processes as he was presumed innocent until proven guilty. “The prosecution can go on and the matter of the costs can be considered later,” he said. During Zuma’s court appearance, prosecutor Billy Downer told Durban High Court Judge Themba Sishi the NPA was ready to proceed with the trial but that at the time the former president had threatened to review the decision to charge him. The DA and the EFF want a court to declare the payment of Zuma’s legal costs by taxpayers unlawful and him to repay the millions already spent. Zuma backers this week announ-
ced plans to fund his legal fees. National Funeral Practitioners Association of SA secretary Nkosenhle Shezi said they would make available the means to finance Zuma if he declares that he has financial problems. “We love Zuma and if we were to find that he has financial problems, we'd try our best to assist him. But right now he has not approached us for any kind of support,” Shezi said. In April, Justice and Correctional Services Minister Michael Masutha revealed that the government had paid over R24.2million to cover Zuma’s legal costs since he assumed office in 2009. Masutha’s department has also publicly revealed that the government has contributed R15.3m to Zuma’s personal legal costs since 2006. Of this R7.8m has been spent since 2009 while about R7.5m was spent in the period between 2006 and the withdrawal of the charges against Zuma in April 2009. President Cyril Ramaphosa has previously told Parliament that Zuma requested legal representation at the state’s expense for criminal proceedings in 2006. Meanwhile, Doctor Bhengu, ANC branch chairperson in Nkandla’s Ward 14, said there was massive interest in attending Zuma’s court appearance across the ward’s seven voting districts. He said Zuma supporters in the Nkandla local municipality’s 14 wards would also be attending.