Operations manager Bert Visser said these were the first criminal activities at the facility in its 80 years of operation. “Don’t get me wrong; it is of concern, but people are going on about it like it will happen every week, which is misleading,” said Visser. He also rubbished talk on social media that the Voortrekker Monument was now a crime hot spot. “South Africa as a whole is dealing with a terrible crime rate. People don’t even feel safe in their own homes any more. So people should stop singling out the monument.” His comments follow the alleged rape of a young woman at the Voortrekker Monument on Saturday. Visser said the alleged attack happened at about 8am. The 19-year-old from Boksburg was manning a stall together with her mom and younger sister during the antique market. Her 11-year-old sister said she wanted to visit the monument, some distance from the market. “Her mom agreed for her to go. After a while, I'm not too sure how long, the mom asked the victim to follow her little sister because she did not want her walking alone.” The alleged victim then followed her younger sister but decided to use the toilet. The toilet is clearly barricaded and cordoned off with tape. When the alleged victim got into the Assegaai toilets she was confronted by an unknown man dressed in black and wearing a balaclava and gloves. The man apparently  punched her in the stomach and walked her down to the Skool op Wiele toilets, about 100m away, where he allegedly raped her. “According to her mom, the victim was told to co-operate or she would be killed,” said Visser. A bus with about 200 people was at the main car park. The victim and the perpetrator passed them on their way to the Skool op Wiele toilets, but nobody noticed anything. It is also alleged that after the alleged rape ordeal the perpetrator told the young girl to clean  herself up with the toilet water. He also assisted her. The man then disappeared, while the woman walked back to the market. Police spokesperson Captain Augustinah Selepe yesterday said police were still searching for the perpetrator.