The recognition came as a R55 000 donation from the Royal Thai Embassy in Pretoria. Deputy Chief of Mission at the Royal Thai Embassy, Paisit Boonparlit, said they had been very fortunate to receive the kindness of Mercy House in the many cases of their compatriots who have been trafficked and abused. “This important facility has enabled Thai citizens to regain their confidence throughout the transition period before they return to their normal lives. “And with that, my government has been supportive; this is also a token of appreciation for all the shelter has done.” Mercy House director Sister Colleen Wilkinson and social worker Sister Mary Mmushi received the cheque. Wilkinson said the shelter was now on its 18th year of operation and had dealt with big cases of trafficking of persons and migrants, among others. Just last year, the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime SA said the country was regarded the major source, transit and destination country for men, women and children for forced labour and sex trafficking. At the time, Deputy Justice Minister John Jeffery, said traffickers targeted mostly those in need of jobs, especially in rural areas. Traffickers often recruited young people, took their IDs and forced them into prostitution. Most children were recruited from poor rural areas to urban centres. “At these places girls are subjected to sex trafficking and domestic servitude and boys forced to work in street vending, food service, begging, criminal activities and agriculture. Many children, including those with disabilities, are exploited in forced begging. Local criminal rings organise child sex trafficking,” Jeffrey said. For the past 12 years, Mercy House has been a haven for trafficking victims and accommodated more than 350 persons from Thailand, Nigeria, Kenya, Uganda, Lesotho, Botswana, Mozambique, Zimbabwe and China, in addition to South Africans. “A great number of victims of trafficking were from Thailand. Just last year, we assisted 29 trafficked Thai women,” Wilkinson said. She recalled a time years ago when they assisted a woman who had left Thailand to come to South Africa “for better opportunities”. “She'd heard South Africa was in need of domestic workers, but upon arrival she was taken straight to a brothel." The shelter accommodated 17 women at a time, with their small children. Accommodating different nations had its challenges, one being the language barrier, management said. “Challenges include those who need to stay longer to attend cases and testify. We offer skills development, but we feel it is not enough,” Mmushi said. The shelter was established by the Sisters of Mercy - a Roman Catholic congregation - to offer special assistance to victims of domestic violence in South Africa in 1998. In 2000, they opened a shelter for traumatised women who received a nutritious diet, toiletries, clothes, transport money to go to job interviews and professional care. The National Prosecuting Authority reported that 235 adults and 13 children were trafficked last year. Of those, 132 were trafficked for sexual exploitation and 106 for forced labour. In 10 cases, the purpose was “unknown”.