Wesley Morris of Eersterust was a commuter in the three-wheeler at the time of the accident on Saturday. It is claimed that a BMW hit the Tuk-Tuk with three occupants from behind in Hans Coverdale West Road in Eersterust. It was driven by Virgilino 
Cedras, 22. One of the passengers was admitted to Mamelodi Hospital and discharged on the same day. The second was discharged from the Tshwane District Hospital the following day. Cedras was transporting another Tuk-Tuk driver and his commuters to a nearby ATM, where they intended to withdraw money for petrol. In his version, Cedras said he saw a speeding BMW coming their way. Before he could move out of the way, they heard a loud bang from the back. “The BMW hit the Tuk-Tuk so hard that he went through the windscreen. As soon as he regained consciousness, he ran to my house and told me what happened,” according to his mother Mereille Cedras. “He told me that he ran to my house because he was scared. He said he had called out the names of the people who were in the Tuk-Tuk, but they did not respond. "He was terrified. I went with him to the scene and found that everyone was still there.” Cedras said after numerous failed attempts to get help from the local police station, an officer from Silverton eventually arrived at the scene but told them he could not assist them as he was attending 
to another accident scene. He however contacted the Eersterust police on his radio, and they arrived at the scene. “The ambulance and Tshwane Emergency Service were already there. "They told us we could move the Tuk-Tuk from the street and we made our way to the police station,” she said. Sergeant Sam Shibambo of the Eersterust police said a case of reckless and negligent driving had been opened and investigations were ongoing. Last year, metered taxi operators marched to the Department of Transport and submitted a memorandum of demands, including a call for the immediate removal of Tuk-Tuks. They claimed that Tuk-Tuks operated with double-decker bus permits in Pretoria and Joburg and no person was allowed to operate road-based public transport unless they had a legal operating permit. The Pretoria News sent questions to the Department of Transport on whether or not Tuk-Tuks were recognised as a form of public transport, and had to have permits. However, the questions were redirected to the provincial government, which said it was looking into the matter and would respond on Wednesday. Pretoria News