THE Water Research Commission (WRC) hosted the vibrant Bula Dokgoro Primary School grade 7 pupils at their Lynnwood offices today. Pupils were welcomed by the WRC employees in their school uniforms. The commission partnered with the school back in 2016 to assist with their vegetable garden. But had invited the grade 7 pupils as they believe they are in their transitional period. "As of next year, grade 7 pupils are going to high school and that is where their careers will start to be shaped as they will choose subjects based on what they want to become in the future," said WRC's corporate social responsibility, Pumeza Ntisana. She said the commission wanted to share their knowledge with pupils and guide them in terms of choosing their careers. The day was also to commemorate June 16. Chantelle Mtambo told them about her aspirations to become a structural engineer. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  She said she was tired of seeing her community suffer due to potholes that are dangerous to vehicles and pedestrians. "Where I come from we are always in tears because of losing the ones we love due to poor infrastructure. We lack services such as hospitals, we have roads with potholes which are extremely dangerous and becoming the best structural engineer means I can change the situation in my community," she said. Pupils were encouraged to study hard and make a better living for themselves and stop envying others. Most of you guys who envy people who steal other people's cars whereas you can be educated and live the lavish life without having to steal other people's belongings," said professor Sylvester Mpandeli, WRC Research Manager. He told the pupils that the country lacked skills and it was up to them to work hard and fill the positions. Pupils further conducted a stream assessment scoring system "Minisass" where they monitored the health of the river and measured the general quality of the water in the river.