Every day, she takes these stories home with her, calculating the correct course of action to ensure these broken children are placed on the road to recovery. Her organisation, Women and Men Against Child Abuse (WMACA) has clinics across Joburg and Pretoria, dedicated to treating young survivors of abuse with limited funding and waning resources. This week, it teamed up with child justice institutions across Gauteng to launch its new proactive anti-abuse campaign, #MiniMeToo. Inspired by the global phenomenon of #MeToo, where millions of women spoke out on social media about the abuse they have suffered, the new campaign is dedicated to bringing the same awareness to child abuse. #MiniMeToo advocates acknowledge how difficult it is for survivors of abuse to come forward with their stories, with children often trapped by fear and silence. The campaign's ideology is simple. It should be used to assure children they have the right to speak out, that they don't have to bear the shame of what an adult or peer has done to them, and that they have the right to justice and support. “Our message to adults is simple: Protect our children. Respect their bodies. Ensure other adults do the same. Listen to children's complaints. Speak out on their behalf. Never protect a child abuser,” the campaign's manifesto reads. “The object of the campaign is to ensure that crimes against children can no longer take place in silence, causing life long shame, guilt and self-hatred. We want to break the vicious cycle of abuse, and ensure that perpetrators of these heinous crimes are shamed and punished.” Yesterday, the campaign began the second leg of its launch at Kingsmead College, where representatives from dozens of other schools met to hear more and hopefully spread the message across the province. Before November's 16 Days of Activism, WMACA is planning to launch a 100000 person march against child abuse under the #MiniMeToo banner. For anyone wishing to assist the campaign or march, please contact Jordan on miranda@wmaca.org.