According to them, Nikhele was shot while minding his own business and not involved in the protest. He underwent surgery on Tuesday at the Dr George Mukhari Academic Hospital. Nikhele said: “I am in a lot of pain, all because that man shot me during a protest that had nothing to do with me. “I had just crossed the M20 coming from the side of Extension 7 RDP housing going towards the informal settlement. “I saw there were people gathering there, protesting over a hit-and-run incident involving a taxi. “The police officer called me, but I was reluctant to go to him. “The next thing I heard a ‘boom’ and I was hit in the eye. “People were talking to me, but I was in so much pain that I could not even concentrate. Blood started coming out of my eye.” Community leader Solly Masanabo said they took photos of the officer and the registration number of the nyala he was in. “We are going to assist the mother to report the  policeman to the Independent Police Investigative Directorate (Ipid) once Nikhele comes back from surgery. “We have already found a lawyer who is going to assist us to report this matter and to take it forward. “We saw these police officers standing on the side of the road. “The next thing one of their colleagues harmed this boy in such a severe way. “This cannot go unpunished. “But if it does, it will be clear that the police are protected and that they could  harm the people they are meant to protect.” The alleged victim’s mother Yvonne Nikhele said she was unemployed and could not afford the medical costs. “My son is disabled now because of this. There are probably some jobs he will not be able to do. He is the breadwinner and does odd jobs. “I have six children that I look after and my only source of income is the social grant I receive for four of them. “I cannot afford to pay for any medical bills that will come from this. “No mother should ever experience something so cruel. “Your child leaves the home with two eyes and comes back with one.” Police spokesperson brigadier Vishnu Naidoo said once the complainants had opened the case, it would be transferred to Ipid. Pretoria News