At a time fuel prices are spiralling out of control, Putco commuters are shocked by the operator’s decision to pass the expense to the already stretched passengers. The bus company will, from July 1, increase ticket prices by 3% for its Soweto and Eldorado Park commuters and 6% for the Pretoria and former KwaNdebele, Mpumalanga, commuters. The hikes are in addition to 8% increases Putco implemented three months ago. Commuters are also facing hikes from the taxi industry, while economists have warned of more fuel increases to come this year. The overwhelmed consumers are still reeling from a VAT hike the government implemented after the February Budget speech. The Budget speech, delivered by then finance minister Malusi Gigaba, also increased the fuel levy by 52 cents per litre. Fuel prices have also shot up several times since the Budget speech, including by 82 cents per litre for petrol at the beginning of this month. Economists have predicted another fuel hike next month that may push the pump price to a record R18 per litre. “I don’t see fuel prices coming down in the next months. It’s bad for consumers, there’s no doubt about it,” economist Fanie Brink said. Brink said the depreciating rand against the US dollar also did not augur well for the economy. The rand was about 2% weaker against the dollar yesterday morning, edging  closer to R14 to the US dollar. “It’s going to be terrible to get to work. Companies dependent on fuel want to cover their production costs and get some margins.” The National Taxi Alliance discussed fare increases last month, spokesperson Theo Malele said. He said despite the biting fuel price hikes, owners were urged to feel for commuters. “We agreed that adjustments would not go above R2 (per trip),” said Malele. “The message to our members was they needed to be considerate. We’re serving the poorest of the poor.” The latest round of increments by Putco means its Pretoria and KwaNdebele passengers will see a 14% increase to their fares for this year. Hikes for their Soweto and Eldorado Park counterparts will also be an above-inflation figure of 11%. Commuters have reacted with shock, accusing Putco of being unfair. In e-mail exchanges with commuters, Trevor Wickham, operations executive at Larimar Group, which owns Putco, said the bus service was being forced by sky-rocketing diesel prices to increase fares for the second time in a year. “The additional 3% increase required is to offset the excessive fluctuation in diesel prices.” He said fuel prices had effectively risen by over 17% for the period March to June this year. But commuters would have none of it, and have urged the company to reconsider. Kgomotso Nyakale decried the fact that Putco’s double-digit increases were above what workers got from their employers. Andrew Sefala, an executive at Putco, said the company this year would face the heaviest loss in its history if it avoided this drastic round of fare increases.