Its transformation committee is finalising a comprehensive policy statement and initiative to enable it to implement an effective strategy to promote transformation. This is according to advocate Francois Botes SC, who has been appointed as the Pretoria Bar chairman. The deputy chairman is advocate Andrew Laka SC. Botes told the Pretoria News some of their members were concerned about the progress of transformation. “We are exploring various initiatives to promote transformation. “The Bar Council is mindful of its responsibility to promote transformation and not to pay mere lip service to transformation. We represent all the people of South Africa and our composition should be reflective of the people of South Africa. “We will do everything within our means to transform the legal fraternity until it represents the diversity of the people of our country,” Botes said. The Pretoria Bar consists of 713 members, of which 361 are white males, 126 white females, 148 black males, 59 black females, three coloured males and five females, while there are four Asian males and seven females. Botes said this Bar had transformed significantly over the years and they played an active role in the transformation of the legal fraternity. “We attract the best students from universities across South Africa and we give preference to previously disadvantaged individuals.” Botes is passionate about the law and about his appointment. “It is an enormous privilege to be elected as the chairperson,” he said. He said the Pretoria Bar was instituted on June 26, 1886. The Bar of the South African Republic was officially dissolved in 1902 and replaced by “the Order of Advocates of Transvaal”. This society was dissolved in 1911 when, consequent to the formation of the Union a General Bar Council was established of which the Transvaal Bar would be a constituent Bar. The Pretoria Bar’s members occupy chambers in seven different buildings in Pretoria. “Our budget exceeds R100million per annum and the Bar Council has the responsibility to manage the affairs of the Pretoria Bar. “My goal is to serve the members of this society with dignity and pride. The Pretoria Bar has a remarkable and exceptional history, and it survived two world wars and political turmoil. “The political and socio-economic landscape in South Africa has developed significantly since 1886 and it is of paramount importance to take cognisance of the history, specifically to understand the challenges of the future. It is impossible to captain a ship of this magnitude without a thorough understanding for what the future demands from our profession.” Another goal of Botes’s is to ensure that the law was available to as many people as possible. “The public don’t always have the financial resources to employ the services of legal counsel. We are duty bound to develop a forum which provides access to our judicial system for people who cannot afford it and who are indigenous. Every citizen of our country is entitled to the protection the constitution provides for. “It is therefore important for our profession to reach out to those who cannot afford to litigate. “It is also important to expand our pro bono initiative and to assist those who don’t have the means to litigate. “I am mindful of the challenges which the unprivileged are faced with and it is therefore important to reach out to those who are in desperate need of legal assistance. The law should be accessible to each and every citizen of our country.”  The Pretoria Bar contributes significantly to the upliftment of underprivileged people who reside in its jurisdiction and is the custodian of several charity initiatives. The Pretoria Bar is also involved in various pro bono initiatives. “Our objectives are to engage with non-governmental organisations, the Law Society and Legal Aid to implement programmes which provide for members of the public to have access to our legal system,” Botes said. “Our pro bono committee is liaising with the Pretoria Justice Centre to assist with Children’s Court matters, particularly to make qualified members available to assist as legal representatives for minor children. “We furthermore intend to assist in maintenance matters, domestic violence applications and matters initiated in the harassment courts.” Botes said his motto is to make a difference in the lives and circumstances of people. “I focus on practical and effective solutions. In my view each of us should reach out and make things happen, failing which our legacy will be empty and worthless. “Our responsibility is not only to practise law, but also to uplift and to empower others who are less fortunate. Money cannot buy integrity and respect. A society which doesn’t have respect for the rule of law is doomed,” said Botes.