“We're (determined) to turn things around. South Africans are going to be safe. We have started. We are not to let the momentum go back,” Cele said. He made the statements when stakeholders in the cash-in-transit industry appeared before the parliamentary police portfolio committee. The meeting, called in the wake of an increase in cash-in-transit heists, was aimed at looking into measures to tackle the crime. Reports presented showed that 152 cash-in-transit heists valued at R114 million had taken place so far this year, which was more than the overall 136 estimated at R61m last year. There were 81 incidents between April and May with Mpumalanga, Limpopo, Gauteng and North West identified as hot spots, and 25 suspects arrested. Yesterday, Cele announced that the police had arrested 10 suspects in Limpopo, Mpumalanga and Gauteng on Tuesday. “These police are working hard. We have unleashed everybody on the street, the Special Task Force, the National Intervention Unit, the Tactical Response Unit” He also said the police had in their last three operations nabbed suspects before they committed crimes. “Even the intelligence is getting there. We have always been responding and reactionary. We move ahead now,” Cele said. The spike in the cash-in-transit heists had pushed the police to act hence they had even bought high-powered vehicles to respond to the crimes, he said “They are real performing cars put on the road for quick response. Most of them will be unmarked.” He was confident things would change for the better in the police service after the revitalisation of the crime intelligence and the Hawks. “We put up all teams except the KwaZulu-Natal commissioner. We expect those teams to move and make this organisation better.” National Commissioner Khehla Sitole said they were close to bringing the crime under control. He said they have a multidisciplinary strategy which involved the banking sector and other stakeholders as well as chasing the suspects throughout the country. “Maybe the criminals better opt for other countries and cross the borders,” he said. “There is willingness among all parties to share one common vision and fight the enemy.” Head of Hawks Godfrey Lebeya said they would fight the granting of bail to the cash-in-transit accused. “The instruction is that all suspects arrested for cash-in-transits, we shall oppose bail,” he said in response to a question about the release of suspects after their arrest. Cele added that there was a need for all to put in a  maximum effort to deal with the scourge, which he described as a culmination of fear factors to South Africans. “There are other feeder crimes,” he said, adding that they would deal with corruption within the police ranks and the cash-in-transit industry. Sitole said resources had moved to the grassroots level to fight crime where it took place. “That is where we need to maximise resources.”