Sassa was speaking before Parliament’s portfolio committee on social development yesterday during a meeting intended to give feedback on the implementation of the Constitutional Court judgment. The court extended Sassa’s cash payment services contract with CPS. Sassa executive manager Rapaahle Ramokgopa told the committee that more than 7million beneficiaries would be moved to the new model which places the SA Post Office (Sapo) as the dominant player. “The guiding principles for the next five-month plan is that we want to eliminate CPS fully by September. "Cash payments will be reduced drastically. Beneficiaries who stay in areas where there is developed cash payment infrastructure will be migrated to electronic forms of payment,” said Ramokgopa. Sassa plans to migrate all beneficiaries to the new Sapo card through the card swop programme by August. Ramokgopa said priority would be given to beneficiaries receiving grants at pay points. There are about2million grant recipients being paid through cash paypoints, merchants and CPS ATMs. “Our new payment model is premised on Sapo as the dominant player, but we are engaging with commercial banks and retailers as secondary players in the value chain. “They have all agreed that they want to participate, and we have given them agreements to sign so that they can start service,” said Ramokgopa. With the new card system, beneficiaries will be able to get their grants at Sapo outlets, ATMs, retail merchants and numerous point-of-sale devices. Sassa aims to swop 7.9million cards by the end of August. Currently, it has swopped 63248 beneficiaries from the old Grindrod card. The committee also raised concerns relating to misinformation about paypoints and social grant cards communicated to beneficiaries, allegedly by CPS officials. Committee acting chairperson Sibongile Tsoleli said Sassa should look into the allegations and take legal action. “The issue of CPS is really serious. There are allegations that CPS is out there trying to counteract the good things that the government is putting forward. Yesterday I received a message; what CPS is doing is charging the old people R65 to get a card. “It might happen that this is not the only case of CPS doing this to beneficiaries. “It is wrong to charge beneficiaries. You must investigate this matter to make sure that social assistance is received by the beneficiaries,” said Tsoleli.