The organisation is now appealing to the public to donate or join a walk on June 26 to assist more amputees with prosthetic legs. Founder Paul Steyn will embark on the walk that will require strenuous effort, accompanied by another amputee Mike Minnie. They will leave Pretoria, walk through Mpumalanga and on to KwaZulu-Natal as well as the Eastern and Western Cape, covering 64 towns and cities on the walk of nearly 3000km. Steyn and Minnie are appealing to the public to join the walk, their aim being to walk the distance within five months. The purpose of the walk is to create awareness about the plight of amputees in South Africa and raise funds to assist deserving financially disadvantaged amputees. The foundation’s Frikkie Harmse appealed to the public to join the two at the Park View Shopping Centre on Garsfontein Road on the day of departure. “It doesn’t have to be the whole walk; maybe walk 5km. We are encouraging mostly amputees to join us because this cause speaks to them.” He said the trip would take 150 days to complete, and they would visit among others Witbank, Nelspruit, Ermelo, Piet Retief, Pongola, Richards Bay, Durban, East London, Port Alfred, Port Elizabeth, Knysna, George, Hermanus and Stellenbosch and finish in Cape Town towards the end of November. Steyn said the walk was to help amputees being provided with prosthetic legs. “Prosthetic legs are very important. They remain the only hope to many because it means they will get the chance to go to school or work. “The main objective of the Paul Steyn Foundation is to raise funds to assist disadvantaged amputees, who have no other means to acquire them, and prosthetic limbs.” He said Minnie liked challenging roles so he invited him to come along and he agreed. “Mike is a go-getter. He never says no to a good cause. But this walk presents its own challenges because we will have to use more energy than an able-bodied person to walk. “But these challenges will not stop us from walking because in some cases deserving financially disadvantaged amputees have been on the waiting lists at state hospitals for prosthetic legs for years because they have no other means to acquire them.” Steyn advised the public to check out the route on their map to mobilise their area to make the walk a success.