The City of Tshwane's three-year cellphone deal with Telkom will ensure that all councillors have cellphones with sufficient airtime, said municipal manager Dr Moeketsi Mosola. Mosola spoke about the deal at Tshwane House, where the two parties put their signatures to paper to officially seal the contract. He said the partnership was aimed at improving service delivery in the city by making councillors accessible to residents in their respective wards. "This goes beyond providing business services. It is fundamental to improving service delivery in the city. We are now making cellphones available to all councillors so that they can be able to directly communicate with us every day in terms of dealing with the needs of communities," Mosola said. According to him, the partnership complemented the city's good intention of building an accessible administration to the people. He said councillors had constantly complained that they would run out of airtime when they tried to contact relevant people to assist in service delivery issues. "They would say that 'I have to ask somebody to give me money so that I can be able to make calls'. "When there is an emergency councillors run out of airtime," he said. He said the service would make sure that councillors have enough airtime to be able to execute their work. He hailed the partnership as the best the city had concluded with a mobile network operator. "When we say communication as a tool is important in governance - this partnership is what it means," he said. Jonas Bogoshi, chief executive of BCX, the subsidiary of Telkom, said: "It is an honour for us to be appointed as the service provider in the city." He said his organisation would strive to improve its quality of coverage in the different wards of the city. "Over time this is going to benefit the City of Tshwane. Communication and technology has become fundamental. For us it is not only about having a deal in terms of mobile phone and data. It is about making the city accessible to the people," he said.