Also, that Henri van Breda, 23, has shown no remorse. This  was the crux of the State’s argument in aggravation of sentencing. Van Breda has been convicted of the axe murders of his parents and older brother and the attempted murder of his sister Marli who was just 16 at the time. The January 2015 murders at the Van Breda family home in the De Zalze security estate in Stellenbosch shocked South Africans, with the 66-day trial regularly grabbing headlines. Throughout the trial, Van Breda maintained his innocence, claiming a laughing, axe-wielding attacker, also armed with a knife, was behind the murders. Senior State prosecutor Susan Galloway said Marli had survived the attacks, not because of any mercy on the part of the accused, but rather because of “a miracle”. She said Van Breda’s lengthy conversation with emergency services, despite knowing his severely injured sister was still alive, showed he was “in no hurry to get medical help” and indicated the cold-blooded nature of the attacks. “There is no remorse, he does not show sympathy for his sister,” she told the court yesterday. “She has lost everything. She has to go through life knowing that her brother killed her whole family and tried to kill her. The same brother who said she was treated like a princess.” Galloway said the State had decided not to hand in a victim impact report after consulting with Marli and her lawyer in the interests of her privacy. Defence lawyer Piet Botha handed in a report compiled by Nicro (National Institute for Crime Prevention and the Reintegration of Offenders) social worker Ariena Smith. She had counselled Van Breda during the trial and described him as “open and honest”. She said he had been guarded at times and didn’t show emotion easily. The report said Van Breda spoke highly of his mother the “nurturer”, who was his primary attachment figure. He was close to his father as well who was an intellectual, but was “not good with his emotions”. He often sought advice from his brother and had a normal sibling relationship with his sister. According to the report, he was emotional when he was no longer allowed to see his sister after his arrest in June 2016. There was no history of mental illness in the family, Van Breda did not present delinquent problems as a child, and had no previous convictions. Botha said Van Breda was “always calm in counselling but found it emotionally difficult to cope with the deaths of his family members”. He did not appear emotionally disconnected, as he had been portrayed in the media. Botha conceded that his client showed no remorse, and could not furnish Judge Siraj Desai with a motive for the crimes when pressed to do so. Judge Desai said he wanted to at least consider mitigating circumstances when considering sentence, but Botha said he could argue nothing more than the youthfulness of the accused and the fact that he still maintained his innocence. Galloway called for the minimum sentence of life to be imposed. For the attempted murder, she said Marli’s injuries were usually fatal and that Van Breda had attacked her with the intent to kill. “The accused executed the attack when his family were most vulnerable after they went to bed.” Galloway said Van Breda had never been open with the court. As a result a motive had never been established. Judge Desai will hand down sentence tomorrow. - African News Agency