Eyewitness evidence suggests the dead were shot by members of the Zimbabwe National Army. About 24 hours later, five vehicles with plainclothes policemen surrounded the home of Biti’s mother, who was apparently in a home her son used to occupy several years ago. “She was terrified. I phoned the authorities to tell them to call them off,” said Douglas Mwonzora, MDC secretary-general. It is not known whether she's since been arrested or the police abandoned the home. The MDC also said police abducted four of Chidziva’s relatives early yesterday, beat them up at the Boka tobacco floors and later dumped them at St Peter’s Church at Kubatabana. The MDC released pictures of some of the injuries. Biti, a former finance minister in the inclusive government, is a senior legal practitioner in Harare. He easily won a parliamentary seat in Harare East in the July 30 elections. There are persistent and ongoing reports of assaults in various high density suburbs by unknown personnel believed to be off-duty soldiers. Meanwhile, the 21 people arrested in connection with Wednesday’s violence that saw the six people shot dead and many others injured spent the weekend in prison. They were arrested by Zimbabwe Republic Police (ZRP) officers on Thursday and charged with committing public violence following protests in Harare after the parliamentary results that gave Zanu-PF a two-thirds majority. The protesters aligned to the MDC Alliance led by Nelson Chamisa, 40, who is now disputing the outcome, demanded that the results for the presidential race be announced immediately. Tragedy struck when the army rolled into the streets to disperse the protesters. In a shocking move, soldiers fired live rounds at unarmed people, killing at least six and wounding many others. A seventh person is thought to have died of gunshot wounds on Friday at a Chitungwiza hospital. On Saturday, the accused, represented by Denford Halimani, Gift Mtisi, Kossam Ncube and Lizwe Jamela of Zimbabwe Lawyers for Human Rights, appeared in court. It emerged they were arrested after some ZRP officers, armed with a search warrant, raided the MDC Alliance party offices in the capital, Harare. Police were searching for grenades, stones, unlicensed firearms, ammunition, computers and subversive material allegedly possessed by party leaders. The MDC Alliance has denied having anything illegal, accusing the police of trying to find the evidence the party claims it has that shows the polls won by Zanu-PF leader and incumbent President, Emmerson Mnangagwa, were rigged. However, the ZRP insists those arrested were involved in acts of public violence. - African News Agency (ANA)