The department of community safety’s senior provincial inspector Moloko Mpete yesterday said there were many cases where officers were shouted at by commuters for doing their job. “Public transport passengers are always the first to shout and complain that law enforcers are wasting their time whenever their drivers are pulled over. “You forget that we stop people because they are doing something that does not comply with the law; the next thing you get involved in accidents, because you allow drivers to break the law. Allow us to do our jobs,” he said. He was speaking at a road safety workshop at the Mandela Sports Ground in Hammanskraal, organised by the Hammanskraal United Commuters Voice to raise road safety awareness among transport operators and pedestrians. Mpete told those gathered not to fear officials in uniform. Once a person becomes scared, it means they are doing something wrong, he said. “You wouldn't mind being pulled over, if you are doing something right.” He told the Pretoria News that many challenges they faced on the road included drunk driving and speeding by taxi operators. He added that a lot of drivers had turned seat-belts into “traffic officer belts”. “Seatbelts are no longer used for people's safety; they're only used when there’s an officer on site and that is wrong. "Should there be a collision, the person without a seatbelt will not be saved, as it will be easier for the person to slide off the seat and out the windscreen,” Mpete warned. He also advised commuters to exercise their rights and report reckless driving by taxi and bus operators. Many accidents included taxis and buses and that was because commuters did not report the operators, Mpete pointed out. “Taxi associations and bus companies are there for you as well, you have the right to complain to them,” he said. Chairperson of the Hammanskraal United Commuters Voice, Caiphus Makoti, said with spring approaching a lot of people plan to celebrate the new season. “While celebrating many will be drinking, knowing very well that they will need to drive. So we saw it fit to host the workshop prior to the celebrations in order to make people aware that they need to keep safe on the roads.” Makoti revealed that accidents occurred almost daily on the R101, an old route which carried traffic from Bela Bela past Hammanskraal to Pretoria. The road needed traffic lights and speed humps for people's safety, he said, adding that these would greatly reduce the high accident rate.