Celebrating its 20th birthday this year, the concert lives up to the “local is lekker” concept as it features a local-only musician line-up, with a range of music across different genres. It also pays tribute to Nelson Mandela on the centenary of this birth. The much-anticipated concert will be headlined by award-winning recording artists Jabulani “Sjava” Hadebe, singer Zonke Dikana, the legendary Caiphus Semenya and his wife Letta Mbuli, Jonas Gwangwa, Ringo Madlingozi and Tshepo “The Village Pope” Tsola. The annual festival has been dubbed “a great way to spend your day”. Everyone has been urged to invite all their friends and family to join in the festivities. “The promise is of a fantastic line-up of local artists bringing entertainment to all visitors,” organisers have said. In addition to the celebrities already mentioned, the star-studded line-up will include internationally acclaimed five-time Grammy Award-winning Ladysmith Black Mambazo, Vusi Nova, Don Laka, Mafikizolo and Amanda Black. The concert kicks off at 2pm on Saturday. But get there early for a good spot. It will run until Sunday morning and is one of the biggest annual events on the city’s calendar. Music lovers are advised to bring camp chairs, blankets and anything they feel will ensure they are comfortable as they enjoy the music. Event organiser Sam Mangwane of Drakensberg Promotions, said yesterday the concert aimed to promote and support South African talent. “Even in our 20th year we continue to revel in, and host, some of South Africa’s best and acclaimed artists. “This year’s concert is a particularly special occasion for us as it gives us the opportunity to reflect on how far we have come as a country in the two decades since the dawn of democracy. “But this is also to celebrate our musical riches, from our music royalty right through to our talented young upstarts,” he said. The concert was established in 1998 at Orlando Stadium in Soweto. But a year later it moved to the capital, and in that time it has bestowed on more than 80 legendary musicians and music industry luminaries the coveted Tribute Award. Mangwane said they had their share of good and bad times, which continued to teach them about the live music culture and the country’s music industry. After “two decades of living up to the promises we make annually to local music lovers, we look forward to providing the best of African music through our specially curated programme. “We are excited to contribute to the development of the cultural economy of the city through this concert.” Mangwane urged the public to support the concert and enjoy great music and socialising with their fellow citizens. Tickets are available at Computicket for R300.