According to the reports, attempts had been made by the SANDF to smuggle arms and ammunition aboard a chartered SAA aircraft bound for Cuba. The reports also said the SANDF headquarters narrowly averted a coup when former president Jacob Zuma was asked to step down. “The SANDF wishes to state that the reports contain factual inaccuracies,” Shoke said yesterday. The South African Revenue Services (Sars) also commented on the report, saying no arms or ammunition were found aboard the aircraft. “We can confirm that our customs and immigration officials were informed by the SANDF of the flight schedule. This was to be able to conduct necessary inspections as per normal processes, including inspecting the flight for prohibited and restricted goods,” Sars said. Shoke said his SANDF colleagues had worked with customs officials to clear the aircraft. Neither weapons nor ammunition were found in passenger luggage during the inspection of the flight or in documents presented to the customs officials, he said. The report had stated that the flight was chartered to transport some Cuban deployees home for their summer holiday. It was alleged that the SANDF failed to inform SAA that on the same flight it would be transporting live ammunition and military hardware to Cuba. It said the weapons were intended to be reverse-engineered in Cuba and sold back to South Africa and other African countries. According to the report, there were two 7.62mm light machine guns, several Star 9mm pistols, six R5 and four R4 assault rifles and three vehicle simulators, including two for Ratel vehicles. “We reject with contempt the allegations that the SANDF was trying to smuggle small arms and munitions to Cuba,” said Shoke. The equipment in question was heavy vehicle simulators for training purposes and were cleared by customs and Armscor following due process. “The SANDF would like to state that there were no small arms or munitions that formed part of the consignment, as reported,” he said. The equipment was apparently earmarked for training SANDF members in the technical aspects of simulator development, maintenance and repairs via the bi-lateral agreement with the Cuban Armed Forces, Project Thusano. This is aligned with the need to develop the necessary technical scarce skills in the SANDF as identified and directed in Milestone 1 of the South African Defence Review 2015. In 2014, the SANDF entered into an agreement with Cuba for Cuban technicians to repair South African military vehicles under Project Thusano. Hundreds of millions of rand have to date been spent repairing and preserving thousands of vehicles.