She was 16 when police raided their Springs double-storey home, dubbed the “house of horrors”, in 2014 and arrested her parents. Social services placed her and her younger siblings in foster care. The youngest was 3 at the time. She, together with her younger brother aged 11, testified against their parents during the lengthy trial in the Gauteng High Court, Pretoria. Neither parent has seen their children since they were removed; they did not speak to their daughter yesterday. The father didn't appear shocked when he was convicted on 16 charges, including the rape of his daughter and the abuse and neglect of his five children. He faced 22 charges. The 39-year-old smiled and said goodbye to a group of friends in the public gallery before he was taken to the holding cells. The mother was convicted on eight of the 20 charges against her. She, too, smiled slightly when she left the dock following her conviction and she went to hug her new fiancé and a handful of friends in the public gallery. The man, who cannot be identified to safeguard his children, did not put up a fight during his trial. He admitted he did assault his oldest son, but denied that he attempted to murder him. But Judge Eben Jordaan convicted him of attempted murder, as he said the man relentlessly punched the child in the face. The boy weighed 38kg at the time, while the father was bulky from steroids he had used. The father, through his advocate, wanted the court to excuse his conduct, as he said he was on drugs at the time and couldn't remember much of what had happened that day. Judge Jordaan, however, said the questions posed to the witnesses regarding the assault on the boy was an indication the father knew exactly what he was doing. The man also denied that he had raped his daughter, but did admit that on occasion he indecently touched her as he believed she was not his child. The judge, however, accepted the evidence of the teenager as being true. Judge Jordaan said it was also clear the father had abused and neglected all five of his children over a number of years. The eldest two children had particularly felt the brunt of his temper. He kept the children mostly captive in their home and they were not allowed to have friends, nor to attend school. They were subjected to severe beatings and other forms of torture. They were also deprived of proper food and medical care. The father even told his son he was going to “bliksem” him to death. “I find that he abused and neglected all five children,” the judge said. He accepted in favour of the mother that she was a battered woman. Both the eldest children testified their mother was subjected to severed assaults from their father. Judge Jordaan accepted that the woman had difficulty in protecting her children against her husband, but he said there was no reason for her to neglect them. He referred to witnesses and video recordings handed to court of the filthy house. Witnesses testified rats were running around and it was “worse than a pigsty”. Sentencing was postponed to October 1. The father remains in custody; the mother’s bail was extended.