A discussion about depression has erupted as the country mourns the death of world-renowned cardiologist and University of Cape Town cardiology professor, Dr Bongani Mayosi, who committed suicide at the weekend, following a struggle with depression, his family said. Sadag described depression as a whole body illness, involving the body, mood and thoughts. They said it affects the way people eat and sleep, how they feel about themselves, and think about things. The organisation said it was not a sign of personal weakness or a condition that can be willed or wished away. “People with depression cannot merely ‘pull themselves together’ and get better. Without treatment, symptoms can last for weeks, months or years. Appropriate treatment, however, can help most people who suffer from depression.” During Mayosi’s life he did well for himself, making a name for himself as one of the best in his speciality. In 2006, at the age of 38, he became the first black person to become professor and head of the Department of Medicine, in what was perceived a racist, predominantly white University of Cape Town and the Groote Schuur hospital. He was the only African who was welcomed by the National Academy of Medicine in the US. He discovered the gene that causes a heart attack, and for his contributions in medicine and research, he was awarded the highest honour in the country, the Order of Mapungubwe in Silver. In 2016, he took up the position of Dean of Health Sciences at the University of Cape Town. Condolences continue to pour in from all quarters of the country, as many express both their shock and sadness at the demise of the 52-year-old specialist. The association said symptoms of the deadly mood disorder included persistent physical symptoms that do not respond to treatment, such as headaches, digestive disorders, and chronic pain. Or persistent sad, or an “empty mood” feeling. People were encouraged to be patient and kind to themselves; to remember depression was not their fault and was not something people can overcome with willpower alone. And treatment was necessary for depression, just like for any other illness. “Try to maintain a positive attitude, remember that feeling better takes time, and your mood will improve little by little. Try to focus on the positive aspects in your life and do not dwell on the negative aspects. If you are always thinking about the negative aspects in your life it will make you more depressed. “Trying to deal with your pain on your own can only make it worse. Share your feelings with others rather than keeping them to yourself,” the organisation advised. The organisation goes on to list: What not to say: “Why bother? Life isn’t worth living. There’s no point in going on.” Do not say: “How can you think that? You have a great job and people who love you. You have everything to live for.” Do say: “I know it feels that way to you right now, but I want you to know that you matter to me and you matter to others who love you. We’ll get through this hopeless feeling together.” “Nothing I do is any good. I’ll never amount to anything.” Do not say: “What are you saying? You’re a highly respected (engineer), you’re a good (father). You’re blowing everything out of proportion.” Do say: “I know it’s upsetting when things don’t work out the way you want them to, it’s upsetting for me too! Failure feelings are really painful, but we’ll get through this together. ” Before the country began discussions on depression on every platform the Gauteng DA said last week it was concerned about the provincial government failing to provide adequate mental health services, and the vacancy rate for psychologists and for psychiatrists remained poorly low. DA member of the Gauteng Health Committee, Dr Heinrich Volmink, said psychologists, like psychiatrists, were essential for care of patients who needed mental health services, and were important in long-term treatment. He said mental illness was a serious issue in society which needs critical care and if ignored it would be catastrophic. “Despite the Esidimeni tragedy that highlighted the plight of mentally ill patients in the province, the Gauteng government is still not doing enough to protect this vulnerable group of people,” he said. He will engage with the MEC for Health, Gwen Ramokgopa, to ascertain why these key vacancies have not been filled.