Justin Sullivan won this year’s News Category in the Andrei Stenin International Photo Contest. African News Agency and former Cape Times photographer Phando Jikelo won the same category for his entry capturing the Grabouw housing protest last year. His winning entry was published in the Cape Times. Out of about 6000 images from around 77 countries, Sullivan won for his image Stand Off, in which a police officer points his gun at poachers hiding under a table, while Luis Tato from Spain was honoured for his photo series Kenya’s Post-Election Turmoil. The Andrei Stenin International Press Photo Contest was launched by Rossiya Segodnya under the aegis of the Russian Commission for Unesco. Its main goal is to support young photographers and draw public attention to the challenges of modern photojournalism. This contest is a platform for young photographers - talented, empathetic and open minded - to draw the world’s attention to people and events around the globe. Director of Rossiya Segodnya’s Photo Service, Alexander Shtol, said: “Every year the contest expands its geography and has more and more applicants. “In 2018, we received almost 6000 images from 77 countries around the world, setting a new record. Young photojournalists have an acute sense of what matters the most, and what is going on in the lives of people, countries and the world in general. There were never as many images on social issues as this year. It is also pleasing to note the improving quality of submissions as well as the fact that the contest has become so prominent within the community of photojournalists.” Two Iranian photographers also received special prizes in the Humanitarian Photograph category. Omid Vahabzadeh won the prize for his image Tehran Attack in which a two-year-old boy is being lifted into the Iranian parliament building after the June 2017 terrorist attack in Tehran, while Younes Khani Someeh Soflaei won the prize for his series ... And Life Rises about the everyday life of people affected by last year’s earthquake in Kermanshah Province, which killed almost 600 people. Sergei Gapon from Belarus came out tops in the My Planet category for his image Cranberry Heart shot from a drone, while the winning photo series was Alyona Kochetkova’s How I Fell Ill, in which she chronicles her dramatic struggle against cancer. In the Sports category, the winners were Taisir Mahdi from Iraq for his photograph The Desire for Life, picturing a young amputee playing football, and Andrea Alai from Italy for his photo series Ultras about the tifosi (fans) of Albenga Calcio club from a small town in Liguria. The full list of contest winners and runners-up is available at stenincontest.com. The awards ceremony and exhibition of the winning works will take place on November 8, when the winner of the 2018 Grand Prix will also be announced.