During a trip to the most famous of South Africa's parks this week, hosted by South African National Parks (SANParks), media witnessed some of the measures which have been put in place, and the role played by advanced technology and equipment. In addition, they were shown the steps taken to investigate the crime scene of a rhino killing. Media specialist at SANParks, Ike Phaahla, said the fight against poaching required a group effort and various role-players had to be involved. “National Parks can only do so much to stop this cruel act. We also need people to come to assist us, be it community members with intelligence, or members of the SA National Defence Force on our borders, we can all do our bit against poaching,” he said. Although statistics released by Environmental Affairs Minister Edna Molewa indicated a slight decline in rhino poaching - from 1054 in 2016 to 1028 in 2017 - Phaahla admitted that more could still be done. The media day in Kruger got off to an interesting start with reporters witnessing a roadblock conducted in the park by SANParks officials, supported by the SANDF and members of the SAPS. On hand were two trained tracking dogs. Such roadblocks are conducted sporadically around the 19400km2 park. Protection Services head, Victor Nxumalo, said suspects could be arrested on the spot or fined. “If you are found with rhino horn or illegal ammunition and firearms we arrest you immediately. Fines range from R1500 to R3000,” he said. The media group headed for Malelane on the Berg-en-Dal Road where a white rhino believed to be between 15 and 18 years, had been shot dead and de-horned last week. With vehicles parked, the team joined the forensic team on a walk through the dry bush about 700m from the road where the carcass - which had been stripped by hyenas and vultures lay. The visitors were asked to keep a distance so as not to contaminate the scene. Frik Rossouw, a SANParks senior investigator for environmental crime said they searched the site for evidence, such as bullets, clothing which may have been left by poachers or anything which may help identify them. In that case, the rhino was shot on the left lower body, and two bullet shells were found on the scene. In some reserves, rhinos are de-horned in an effort to protect them, but this is not the policy in Kruger. Rhino slaughter is a national priority crime, and the collaboration between various organisations is paying dividends. In June, two rangers linked to rhino poaching in Houtboschrand the month before were arrested, while in the same month, three alleged poachers were arrested by rangers supported by K9 and Airwing reaction teams. Sadly, the following month, a ranger on patrol was shot dead when they came face to face with poachers.