Judge Moses Mavundla found that the words were defamatory, and subsequently awarded Manyi R50000 in damages. Dlamini, in a WhatsApp message, told Manyi “you deserve to be necklaced”. The court also accepted that this threat was hurtful towards Manyi and the judge awarded him R5000 in damages. Manyi turned to the Gauteng High Court, Pretoria, claiming R5million in damages against Dlamini arising from the messages on social media. Dlamini denied in media reports that he was the author of these words, and also indicated in court papers that he was going to oppose the civil claim. In spite of being put on terms to deliver his defence, Dlamini never responded by placing his version before the court. According to Manyi’s court papers, he and Dlamini were part of the Open Politics WhatsApp group. In July 2017 the group discussed the theme, What is regime change? Manyi said he voiced his opinion, to which Dlamini responded by making defamatory remarks, followed by a threat. According to Manyi, these remarks were widely circulated on numerous other WhatsApp groups as well. Judge Mavundla said that once a plaintiff (Manyi in this case) had established publication of the defamatory statement, it was up to the defendant (Dlamini) to raise a defence. “The defendant in this case chose not to come to lock horns with the plaintiff, although he was served with the invitation to do so,” the judge said. The entire message which Manyi said was defamatory, read: “You lame horny old donkey; remember how you came to Wits and you wanted to f*** Nompendulo? Remember how you gave her 40k so that you can harvest her. Lazy, horny stinky donkey.” Manyi said this was intended by Dlamini to mean that he was cheating on his wife, sleeping around with students and was low on morals. Judge Mavundla explained each of the defamatory words in his judgment by using the Oxford Dictionary explanation. He, among others, said “the word horny meant sexual excitement”, while the word donkey meant “a domesticated hoofed mammal of the horse family with long ears and a braying call”. The f-word, the judge said, was used according to the dictionary to express disgust. After he analysed each word according to the dictionary, the judge said he had no doubt they had the effect of infringing on Manyi’s right to dignity. He said the words put into question the moral compass of Manyi and the fact that he was compared to an animal of low intellectual capacity with an unpleasant smell was indeed defamatory. The judge said the words complained of were of a serious and scandalous nature. “The plaintiff is a reputable man of note and a prominent public political figure who enjoys extensive public attention,” Judge Mavundla concluded.