Hosted at Pretoria Boys High School, the competition saw 14 teams from various schools strive to outwit each other with their general knowledge. However, in the end only six teams advanced. First was Crawford College Team 2 with 31.5 points, followed closely by Affies (Afrikaanse Hoër Seunskool) Team 1 with 29.5 and Boys High with 28.5. Other winners included Midstream College with 26 points and two other teams from Crawford and Pretoria Boys. The winners will face Willowridge High School, two teams from Girls High and the Pretoria Chinese School for the regional contest on September 1 at Varsity College. Yesterday’s group displayed more efficiency and bravado compared to Monday’s teams at Maragon Mooikloof. While the previous groups on Monday stared at the ceiling and deliberated, yesterday’s group was quick with the answers, which gave a clear indication that they knew their stuff. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  The majority of schools answered the questions quicker than the prescribed 30 seconds. “I’m impressed with this bunch, very quick, clearly you know your stuff,” said quiz master and editor of the Pretoria News, Val Boje. Echoing these sentiments was adjudicator and news editor of the Pretoria News, Ntando Makhubu, who said the event had been an eye-opener in terms of how the youth absorbed what they read in the newspaper. “Some of the issues they seem to absorb and with some that are totally off the mark,” she said. “But I must say this group compared to Monday’s were quicker and they seemed to know a bit more. They had more precise answers and elaborated,” she said. The learners admitted they struggled with current affairs and politics but enjoyed the sport and lifestyle. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  Crawford Grade 10 learner Jihan Rampha said he thought the business category was the easiest, but admitted this was because his dad had helped him with it. “My dad basically force-fed business down my throat.” He vowed to brush up on politics and current affairs. “I am definitely going to read the Pretoria News more often.” Crawford life science teacher Cara Welsh said they established a WhatsApp group and spoke daily about current events and news. “It is really warming to see that all our work paid off. But now the pressure is on to focus on the next round,” she said. Learners were not the only one whose brains were picked; parents, schoolteachers and non-participating learners who sat in the gallery were asked a question at the end of each category and received a “goodie bag” for their answers. The categories included current affairs, politics, sport, business and entertainment. The contest is part of the Independent Media National High School Quiz being run simultaneously with The Star in Joburg, Daily News in Durban and Cape Argus in Cape Town. The national winner will take home the title, R20000 for their school, R5000 for each team member and R5000 for their team coach. There are also prizes for the runners-up and a bursary for a deserving candidate.