This was the warning by MMC for Utility Services Darryl Moss, who unveiled a R10million water pipe network replacement project at Moreleta Park. Construction took place between last December and August13 after the old 400mm diameter pipes burst. “We were losing a lot of water in this pipeline through the bursts and leaks, and we are really a water-stressed city. In the next 10 years we are going to have to be extraordinarily careful with regard to how we use water in the city. “I think most of you would have heard that Rand Water, which supplies us with 70% of our water, has capped us in water supply for the next 10 years. It means that what we getting from Rand Water today is what we’ll get in 10 years' time, and the city is getting 10000 more people every month.” Moss was proud that the project had been completed at a cost of R12.9m and eight days before its projected date of completion. He said although he would be unveiling other similar projects in the city, residents needed to remember that water was a scarce resource in Pretoria. “For us this is truly how a model project should be run, on time and within budget. It shows it is possible. I thank everyone who worked on this project. We need to take this recipe and replicate it across other projects that we are doing in the city,” Moss added. According to the council, the old pipe could not withstand the high static pressure and therefore had to be replaced with a 450mm diameter Class 16 pipe from Jacques Street to Delmas Road, along De Villebois Mareuil Drive. The replacement of the old pipes included all valves and fire hydrants, paving, concrete and road surfaces that were damaged during the construction. Area councillor Daryl Johnston said: “This project will save the city thousands of litres of clean water and make residents and business people happy. “We hosted monthly meetings for the duration of the construction to assure our people that the rewards would be worth the patience. Thankfully we’ve had zero complaints.”