And this is largely due to the man behind the mike, Isaac Percy Mabasa, known as “Percy Sleash SA” or P-Sleash. The actor, poet, comedian, singer, MC and event organiser brings all these elements on to the airwaves - and in the process, creates a vibrant, easy-on-the-ear show. “My team is passionate about radio. I am the driver of The Ultimate Morning Xperience,” he said. In Mabasa’s team is Neo Rabaji, who he described as “my jack of all trades” who doubles as news reader and co-host. Marvin Malaka is sports anchor and Itumeleng Guru Pitseng, the music compiler on the show, which airs in Tswana and English. “The show is different in its Zola7 approach, where we make dreams come true. I risk it all by giving local artists a platform by playing their music on high rotation and inviting them over. “Our features are medical Monday and Concrete Jungle, where we interview local entrepreneurs. “I use my YouTube channel with more than 150000 views, Facebook and WhatsApp to interact with the audience and share video clips of the show for those outside our catchment areas.” Mabasa was born in Ga-Rankuwa and raised by a single mother in Soshanguve. His journey in entertainment started in 2009 after he met his producer, “Mr Good Musiq”, who was to shape his music career. In 2011, he was introduced to the film industry by Mpho Mokoape, who he had met the same year, and signed to a production company, Imagined Entertainment Project. Two years later, P-Sleash was introduced to Cascade Sound Production, where producer Mosankie Csp produced several hit singles for him, putting him on the map as an artist. The same year, the radio bug bit Mabasa and he was invited to Soshanguve Radio as co-host. That grew his passion for radio even more. He worked for several other production companies and later established a media company with his manager, Cooly ka Ndaba, known as Tshwanetainment Records, which closed down due to financial problems. He continued going solo with his music and MCing career, to make his mark around Pretoria, As Sleash Poet, then under Sleash Entertainment Base, he got an opportunity to be on TUT FM on John English’s show TUT Networks every Thursday night. He has not looked back and has since added Unik Casting & PR Agency to his stable. He has also established his radio station, Tswaing Lokshin FM, which is awaiting a broadcasting licence and frequency.