Three Department of Roads and Transport vehices were damaged when angry Nellmapius residents pelted them with stones while the team was reinstating the signal (traffic lights) at about 11.30am, at the corner of Solomon Mahlangu Drive and Pretoria Road, east of the city. The team had to abandon the site and flee the area, City spokesperson Selby Bokaba said. One official was trapped inside the vehicle while the rioters were pelting it with stones, but fortunately he managed to escape unscathed, he said. "The community also stole the tools and equipment of the City officials. “The team had to leave the site as it was no longer safe for them for work in that area. "At the time the team came under attack they had already planted poles and signal heads and had to leave cables behind when they fled the site for their lives.” Bokaba said of concern was that a team of municipal officials together with Expanded Public Works Programme contract workers sourced from the local community were chased by the same community last week. That was while they were trying to reinstate the intersection signal which had been vandalised. The team sought protection from law enforcement and returned to the site yesterday, escorted by members of the SAPS. “But when violence broke out yesterday, the police fled the scene leaving our members vulnerable. "Officials involved in yesterday's incident were left traumatised and are now reluctant to go and work in that area, which would adversely affect service delivery.” He said vandalism of infrastructure had become a nightmare for the City in recent months. Last week, in Wonderboom, an intersection was vandalised by unknown persons who cut a signal pole from the bottom. It costs between R200000 and R300000 to install a new intersection signal. “We call on community members to cease intimidating, assaulting and threatening City officials and damaging City assets, such as vehicles, cables and substations. “If some sections of the community persist with their thuggish behaviour, they will make it difficult for officials to respond to service delivery interruptions."