The quiz is part of the National High School Quiz being run jointly by Independent Media's Daily News in Durban, Cape Argus in Cape Town, The Star in Joburg and Pretoria News in partnership with the IIE’s Varsity College. It sees teams of four pupils in Grades 9-11 compete in various rounds, with winners going through to a national final. There are wonderful prizes for the winning schools and team members from Varsity College - and even some spot prizes for bright audience members. The quiz is open to all high schools in the city, and 18 schools registered to compete. There will be two rounds: nine schools in Cluster A will meet at Maragon College, Mooikloof (652 Eland Street, 0120035559) from 3 to 5pm on Monday, August 13. The other nine in Cluster B will be competing at Pretoria Boys High at the same time on Wednesday August 15. (Teams should be there by 2.30pm). The questions in the quiz are in five rounds of eight questions, with all the answers coming from editions of the Pretoria News over the past few days. The categories are current affairs, politics, sport, business and entertainment. This broad media-based approach encourages competitors to actively engage with current events and important social issues - and makes the quiz unique as well as fun and exciting. Competing schools in Cluster A are: Maragon Mooikloof, Abbots College; Lompec Secondary; Pretoria Chinese School; Pretoria High School for Girls; Staatspresident CR Swart School; Willow Ridge High School; Woodhill College and Hoërskool Menlopark. Those in Cluster B are: Pretoria Boys High, Afrikaanse Hoër Seunskool, Crawford College Pretoria, Christian Progressive College, Thuto Bohlale Secondary School, AL Ghazali College, Midstream College, Sutherland High School and The Glen High School. Winning teams from each cluster will represent the city in the national finals to be held at Varsity College in Sandton on September 27. Please get 100% behind Pretoria News School teams by following or liking the Pretoria News and HSQ page on Facebook or Twitter and help us motivate our pupils to bring the national title home to the city. When posting your comment please use #BRING HSQ TITLE TO THE CAPITAL CITY, tag participating school's page and Varsity College's page. For further information, please contact Renee Montez-Avinir on Cell: 0825381604.