Six years on, the investigations remain incomplete and police officers responsible are yet to be charged for the mass killings during a violent strike at Lonmin Platinum Mine. National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) national spokesperson Luvuyo Mfaku said that last year they had received dockets from the Independent Police Investigative Directorate (Ipid) regarding the August 16, 2012, shooting. “In respect to the events of the 16th which is divided into two scenes, the Ipid brought the dockets (to the NPA) towards the end of last year. Prosecutors prioritised the dockets (and concluded) that the investigation is not completed. “They are busy compiling detailed directives that they will forward to the Ipid to conduct further investigations,” Mfaku said. He said the Farlam Commission’s recommendations had not yet been implemented entirely. “There are only three investigators from Ipid (on the case). There was the reconstruction of the scene that Judge (Ian) Farlam had said experts must be appointed to reconstruct. We identified the experts but Ipid doesn’t have the money,” Mfaku said. Ipid spokesperson Moses Dlamini said: “The investigation with regard to these deaths of 34 people was completed and the dockets were referred to the NPA on August 1, 2017, for a decision. “Ipid is still awaiting for a decision in this regard, including a way forward on the scene two reconstruction,” Dlamini said. Association of Mineworkers and Construction Union (Amcu) president Joseph Mathunjwa yesterday told thousands of people gathered near the koppie where the shootings took place that there were high hopes that justice would be served after former national police commissioner Riah Phiyega was found unfit to hold office and was fired. “We expected a hard-hitting exposé about the trigger-pullers and their commanders, but there was none. “However, that has come to pass and there are new developments on this terrain,” Mathunjwa said. He said there were developments regarding compensation for the families and victims. “This is a welcome development although there was an arbitrary decision by the state to come up with a figure without consulting the parties.” Mathunjwa said he was happy to report that most workers in the platinum mining sector were receiving R12500 and that this approach was being adopted by other unions. “However, we now hear of a national minimum wage of R3500 to be implemented. This figure is a slap in the face of the workers and is way below Amcu’s threshold,” he said. Mathunjwa said South Africans needed a living wage. “Furthermore, the quick implementation of a minimum wage is clearly a way of turning away the attention of workers from the R12500 demand. "It is an attempt to assure that they will now have leverage to pay lower wages than those demanded by Amcu,” Mathunjwa added. Asked about the task ahead regarding investigations into the case, Mfaku said a lot was being done to ensure that justice was served. “Everybody wants the families to find closure. We don’t want that every year when we say we are commemorating this tragic incident and be the same (that) there is no accountability,” Mfaku said. Families who lost breadwinners in the days leading up to the Marikana Massacre are a step closer to finding closure. Mfaku said a criminal case against 10 police officers, including former North West provincial deputy police commissioner Major-General William Mpembe was set for pre-trial in the North West High Court in September. Mpembe, 55, and the other policemen are facing 15 counts, including murder, attempted murder and defeating the ends of justice relating to incidents before the mass murder of mineworkers at Marikana. The murdered miners are Semi Jokanisi, Pumzile Sokhanyile, Tembelakhe Mati, while Warrant Officer Hendrik Tsietsi Monene and Warrant Officer Sello Ronnie Lepaauku also lost their lives. The survivors in the case include Zolile Honxo, Zwelitsha Mtshenwa, Muziwanele Mxinwa, Mzoxolo Zukulu and Sibongiseni Miya. The other officers facing criminal charges include Constable Nkosana Mguye, 38, retired Colonel Salmon Johannes Vermaak, 53, and Warrant Officers Masilo Mogale, 49, Katlego Joseph Sekgweleya, 39, and Khazamola Phillip Makhubela, 49, and Brigadiers Gideon van Zyl and Dingaan Madoda. “There are about 10 officers in court regarding Marikana. Their matter was postponed for pre-trial on the September 14,” Mfaku said. The Institute for Security Studies, which on Wednesday released a damning research report regarding the shooting of miners by police on the small koppie which became known as “Scene 2” said the NPA should act to ensure justice. ISS justice and violence prevention head Gareth Newham said police commanders who authorised the shooting should be a priority for prosecution by the incoming head of the NPA. “The SA Police Service can only rid itself of Marikana’s deadly legacy by taking responsibility for the unnecessary killings, with commanders and those who pulled the trigger being held accountable, said Newham. Independent researcher David Bruce, who compiled the report report titled “The Sound of Gunfire” into the shooting of mineworkers at “Scene 2”, claimed that 57 police officers from four different units had fired 295 bullets at mineworkers - “198 R5 rifle rounds and 97.9mm rounds. SSG shotgun rounds were apparently also used. This was reckless in the extreme,” said Bruce. ”At Scene 2 they took 11 minutes to shoot and kill a further 17 miners, including a group taking cover among rocks and bushes,” said Newham. A celebratory mood filled Marikana as the slain miners were honoured and remembered at the event organised by Amcu. Attendees came from various places. UDM and DA leaders Bantu Holomisa and Mmusi Maimane called for action to be taken against those responsible.