The women held placards and slammed the government for the deaths of two young children who fell into pit toilets. The launch of the initiative comes four years after the death of 4-year-old Michael Komape, who fell and died in a pit latrine at his Limpopo school in 2014. His death was followed by that of 5-year-old Lumka Mkthethwa from the Eastern Cape, who died after falling into a pit latrine in March. After Mkthethwa’s death, the president instructed Minister of Basic Education Angie Motshekga to carry out an audit of school sanitation facilities and to submit a plan to eradicate these within three months. One of the placards from the women questioned why the government is hosting the event while Motshekga is appealing against a ruling to fix the schools. “Why did government last week file an appeal against the Bhisho High Court judgment that says government can’t avoid fixing schools. “How do we appeal a judgment which makes the norms better and we come here and talk about the dire state of school infrastructure and the need to eradicate pit toilets, but you are fighting that as a department,” asked Hopolang Selebano from NGO Equal Education. MEC of Education Panyaza Lesufi, who was also at the event, went to the women and calmly spoke to them. Before stepping down from the podium, Ramaphosa acknowledged the women and said Mkthethwa’s death was the catalyst for the initiative. “Schools should be places were kids are safe and empowered. They should be centres for building communities. This initiative goes beyond the brick and mortar of sanitation, it touches the young souls of our nation,” Ramaphosa said. The initiative, led by the Department of Basic Education in partnership with the National Education Collaboration Trust, the Nelson Mandela Foundation and Unice, is in response to the significant school sanitation challenges facing SA’s poorest schools. Ramaphosa said it was an initiative that would save lives and restore the dignity of tens of thousands of the nation’s children, as the Constitution demanded. “The initiative will spare generations of young South Africans the indignity, discomfort and danger of using pit latrines and other unsafe facilities in our schools. “Schools should be places where children can be safe, supported, nurtured and empowered,” he said. There were 4000 schools across the country that relied only on pit latrines or other inappropriate sanitation facilities. “It was such a school, Luna Junior Primary School in the Eastern Cape, where Lumka Mkethwa lost her life in March.” “The utterly tragic and devastating deaths of children so young and innocent remind us of the human consequences of service delivery delayed.” - Additional reporting: African News Agency (ANA)