MMC for Agriculture and Environmental Management Michael Mukhari made the promise when he visited the protest-torn area to help calm tension between residents and those who had built the shacks nearby. Violence broke out on Monday when residents blocked all roads in and out of the area demanding the removal of the shacks. The shack-dwellers, who had come from Boikhutsong, hit back by telling residents to relocate to Sandton if they did not want shacks near their houses. Police had to use rubber bullets and stun grenades to split the conflicting groups. The group from Boikhutsong, joined by another from Mabopane Block C, had confronted Morula View residents who had blocked the roads to encourage intervention from the City. Mukhari said land invasion was wrong and would not be allowed or condoned in the City. He said it robbed people on top of the list of beneficiaries of land and RDP houses. “People need to know that the City is the custodian of the land and only the City can give people land and provide services. “All these other people who sell land or stands are criminals taking advantage of our vulnerable members of society. It then becomes a sad situation when people get evicted.” He said aspiring beneficiaries of land needed to know that in the metro, people who received land or RDP houses were given documentation to prove they were awarded the land and RDP houses legally. “Before you accept land from any person or even a community leader, ask who that land belongs to. “In addition, demand the documentation to prove ownership of the land and check if the City is aware of that allocation process. If you fail to do this, criminals mislead you.” Local councillor, Tshepo Motaung, said 2800 RDP houses were being built near Odi Community Hospital but residents of Boikhutsong did not want this. “I told those people that they would receive those houses if they were on the list of beneficiaries. However, they were led by people who subscribed to hooliganism and thus did not listen. “In fact, I believe they did not care for the offer; they knew less than 20% of them were on the beneficiaries list. They therefore resorted to invasion of other land.” Human Settlements MMC Mandla Nkomo said service providers were appointed last week to start removing the illegal shacks. Metro Police spokesperson Senior Superintendent Isaac Mahamba said people needed to know their duty was to enforce by-laws, not to remove land invaders. “Service providers do so as per their tender. We only give back-up and protection when they demolish illegal structures.”