Centurion - Motorists in Centurion can now happily drive on Gerhard Street after it was reopened for traffic following repairs to the sinkhole, which was discovered on the road in July last year. Tshwane mayor Solly Msimanga cut the ribbon to mark the official re-opening of the route. The sinkhole developed at the intersection of Jean Avenue and Gerhard Street, resulting in the City of Tshwane closing the route for traffic for more than a year. Msimanga said its re-opening would improve the flow of traffic in both north and south directions of the road. Vehicles would be able to turn from Gerhard Street into Jean Avenue in an easterly direction only as the other part of Jean Avenue was still under construction. Msimanga said: "We are happy to announce that phase one of the sinkhole repairs at the intersection of Jean Avenue and Gerhard Street in Centurion has been successfully completed." He said vehicles would not be able to turn into Jean Avenue in a westerly direction from Gerhard Street because that portion of the road would be closed to repair the second subsidence. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  "The sinkhole has caused massive disruption to business and traffic flow in Centurion. This is the largest single cost of repair (R25 million), and the contractor, who has the necessary capacity to undertake the work, was handed over the site in January 2018," he said. Msimanga said at least R27.5 million had been allocated for the repairs of five of the highest ranked sinkholes for the 2017/2018 financial year. "In the current financial year R25 million will be made available for the rehabilitation of other sinkholes. Due to the high number of sinkholes, a process has been developed that prioritises sinkholes in terms of repair priority," he said. He said it was important to note that sinkholes can occur naturally over time, but are aggravated in built up areas due to leakage and ingress of storm water, water or wastewater into the subsurface, and also through the lowering of the groundwater table through dewatering. "We urge residents to report to the City any sign of sinkholes developing in their areas to ensure that we respond timeously," Msimanga said.