It also asked for forgiveness for the inconveniences caused by the project since it was launched last year. “To achieve progress there will be some measure of inconvenience that will be felt by our people. “We apologise for that. We ask them to bear with us while we make these operational and historical upgrades,” mayoral spokesperson Samkelo Mgobozi said. Mgobozi said the construction would take a while as there were other phases yet to be rolled out, including the installation of vegetation and lights that would make the area more attractive. He said when the construction dust had settled, there would be no general traffic through the facility, which would benefit the traders immensely. Traders had indicated that the ongoing construction work was hampering their efforts to make an honest living. They pointed to a massive drop in income since the construction started last year. They claimed they used to make a decent income when many tourists visited the area, but due to construction, no one went to Church Square any more. Photographer Solly Temba said: “This place used to be a gold mine before the construction because a lot of people who came to the city would visit Church Square. “People wanted to take photos to save memories. Some of those people were genuine tourists who came here to see the statues and learn about our history. They paid good money for photos.” Temba said he inherited the trade from his father 10 years ago. “Some of these guys who are working here for the construction company used to trade with us. I am happy for them because obviously not everyone could be hired.” Samuel Maswanganyi sells food and other items, and he too said he had been highly inconvenienced by the construction. “Spring is around the corner, and I am already selling kites because parents want them for their children. “However, with the precinct not attracting people due to the ongoing work, I have to move around the CBD, but that means I cannot fly my kites high to make them attractive because they could be a danger to motorists.” Thabang Ngwenya said he used to sell a lot of fruit, vegetables and electric kettles. However, lately he could only sell fruit because the number of clients had gone down.