This week’s celebration of World Ranger Day by SANParks was a reminder that there are many other activities run by increasingly sophisticated criminal networks which threaten our wildlife, including abalone poaching. Abalone - and the South African variety known as perlemoen (or mother-of-pearl) - is a sea mollusc and its numbers have dwindled to critically low levels because of over-exploitation and an increase in poaching. Considered a delicacy in demand particularly in the Far East, where it is believed to have aphrodisiac properties, abalone is worth a fortune, hence its nickname “white gold”. A drone video, released by Defence Web earlier this year, shows the razor-sharp planning behind an abalone poaching operation in Pearly Beach on the Overberg coast in the Western Cape. In the video, divers are seen working between the kelp to lever abalone from the reefs. They leave their loot in bags for runners to collect but when the authorities are alerted and pounce, the runners scatter. The poachers are traced to an informal settlement nearby. As part of World Ranger Day on July 31, SANParks rangers performed a demonstration of a counter-attack on abalone poachers. They used the Darlington Dam in the Addo Elephant National Park for the exercise, which saw marine rangers chase a boat of “abalone poachers” across the water, while a plane swooped down low over them. The “poachers” jump out of their boat as it nears the shore, and while one is caught by the rangers in the shallow waters, another runs off. A drone helps track his progress and field rangers of the K9 unit smoke him out of the bushes and bring him down, to applause from an audience of rangers, SANParks officials, media and dignitaries attending the event. Addo Elephant National Park is unique in South Africa as its only “Big Seven” national reserve; it is home to the Big Five land animals as well as the big two of the ocean - the Southern right whale and great white shark. The coastal area of the park, which was transferred from the provincial conservation department to SANParks in 2002, stretches between the Sundays River Mouth and the Bushman’s River Mouth and includes the Alexandria Dunefield - the largest and least degraded coastal dunefield in the southern hemisphere. Bird Island and St Croix Island in Algoa Bay were proclaimed as part of Addo Elephant National Park in 2005. Addo is today a biologically diverse park which has been undergoing a steady process of expansion as part of the greater Addo Elephant National Park project. New land has been purchased and rehabilitated, fencing erected, and over the course of this week, the dream was realised to move a family of 27 elephants from the park’s main viewing area to the northern Darlington Dam region where some of this expansion is taking place. Deputy Minister of Environmental Affairs Barbara Thomson, said: “When we think of rangers, we usually picture a person patrolling the veld, but there are additional aspects to rangers’ work in a national park, and that is to show how marine and terrestrial rangers work together to protect our natural heritage and arrest poachers. “It is not only the rhino or elephant that are poached in South Africa. Species such as abalone are illegally harvested, sea turtles are snarled, while illegal fishing and dumping of waste into the ocean is rife.” Thomson said Ranger Day was a day on which the government can say to rangers that their work and well-being matters to us. “It is a day on which we can reaffirm our assurance to them that we stand fully behind them and will continue to support them by building their capacity through training and equipping them with basic field gear.” Referring to poaching, she said it would be “naïve of us to deny the potential for bribery and corruption fuelled by large amounts of cash offered by poaching syndicates”. According to the Defence Web article by Kimon de Greef, who did research on the abalone trade, poachers harvested more than 40000 tons of abalone in South African coastal waters in the past two decades - nearly 20 times the entire legal catch. He found that the trade was controlled by Chinese mafia groups in alliance with local gangs, and the product was shipped to Hong Kong, where abalone has been a status symbol for more than 2000 years. Dried South African abalone, the priciest mode of consumption, is worth more than R45000 per kg of flesh when converted back to wet weight, according to the article.