Social media users identified her as “the lady who sold vetkoeks at the corner”. But police said yesterday she was in fact an SAPS employee. The video was shared rapidly on social media on Tuesday afternoon and left many confused. It went up on the Police Pics And Clips site on Facebook. In it, the woman is seen stamping and signing documents from behind a counter with a man dressed in his police uniform next to her. She then took the documents from people in a queue, went to the counter and continued with the job. The video was captioned: “so I’m here at Mamelodi East police station to certify a few of my documents. The woman stamping and signing our documents is a lady that sells vetkoek around the corner. Thanks but no thanks; I will not have my confidential documents being signed by her.” But yesterday provincial police commissioner Lieutenant-General Deliwe de Lange said that while the woman was authorised to go about her job without her uniform on, her attire was inappropriate. “It can be confirmed that the woman is an employee of the SAPS and is authorised to certify documents. “It must be registered, however, that the manner in which the woman is dressed while rendering a service to the public is inappropriate and can therefore not be condoned. The matter will thus be addressed with the employee,” De Lange said. She said professionalism was important. “Professionalism goes hand in hand with our concerted efforts geared at improving service delivery levels at all police stations. “This is the context within which we remain purposeful in enhancing all front-line service delivery points towards regaining public confidence and strengthening relations between the police and the public.” While others were quick to express their confusion over how she was dressed, many came out in her defence. Patrick Mafundo said: “This is a police officer while she’s off duty she assists the community and selling vetkoek is not a crime. You should be thankful she is there at Mamelodi East station.” Tsholofelo Hyacinth Mokwena said she saw nothing wrong in the video. “What if she’s a police reservist? There’s nothing wrong here. Certifying is not for the police only at Post Office they do certify. People like to undermine and judge others by their looks or clothes.”