The public relations students from Arcadia campus then thought to turn the assignment into an uplifting “pad drive”, with the objective being to focus on the need for sanitary towels among young girls in unprivileged areas. It also became a menstrual hygiene initiative, through which the goal became to collect 1000 sanitary towels, to be donated to the NGO, and they organised a handing over event to mark the completion of their campaign on Wednesday. Speaking of the six-month campaign, one of them, Lesego Monama, said the idea had always been there, but they wanted to make a different change in young people’s lives, different from last year’s class initiative, which was to donate food to a home. “We wanted to assist where we could and The House of Labron Foundation seemed like the right place to lend a helping hand; we are trying to keep girls in school,” Monama said. Home founder Dikeledi Moabelo said their objective was to decrease the number of school dropouts by dealing with the issues that lead to the high rate. Teenage pregnancy, juvenile delinquency and other social issues which threatened the possibilities of a bright future became their focus. It assists with poverty alleviation, support, motivation and guidance, and, she said, they pride themselves in providing more than just food parcels and sanitary towels to the students, they also offer continuous support. Moabelo said The House of Labron worked hard to establish strong consistent and secure relationships with students to help give them the best chance at success. “The biggest problems are the lack of parent commitment, money and support. Most of the students who fail fall back into a vicious cycle of poverty, drug addiction, teenage pregnancy and crime. The House of Labron Foundation is a non- government, non-profit organisation that works with schools and students from disadvantaged communities." The reason behind starting the foundation was because of reasons such as children from disadvantaged backgrounds only having a 54% chance of completing school, 11.6% had a chance of furthering their studies, and only 4.9% would graduate from university. “A shocking 45.6% of all children from disadvantaged communities do not attain a matric certificate,” Moabelo said. The pads will be distributed in Mamelodi schools.