They have since resorted to man-made pipelines to improve the situation and paid thousands to plumbers to unblock drains. Utility Services MMC Darryl Moss said yesterday this was the result of original sewerage lines laid in many parts of Mabopane, Winterveldt and Ga-Rankuwa during the days of the Bophuthat- swana homeland government, which had passed their design lifetime. In Mabopane Section A, pools of faeces and sanitary pads were visible everywhere. Residents said they had reported the matter to the City of Tshwane numerous times, but were still waiting for it to be attended to. According to residents, there were perpetrators who threw stones inside the sewers to block them. They accused the municipality of charging them continuously for sanitation despite not providing the service. Mother of two Thokozile Makhudu said: “We’ve reported the matter to the councillor countless times over the past five months, but she keeps telling us about politics which we do not want to hear. “We also spoke to the regional executive director, and that too did not yield positive results. “The councillor also tells us that they don’t have equipment to unblock the sewer and that there are only two artisans,” she said. The matter, she said, had a negative impact on their lives. “Children can’t play outside because it is dirty. They are even getting sick from this.” Makhudu said they would be hosting a wedding at the beginning of September, but might be forced to cancel it if the problem was not resolved. Zwela Mahlangu, 70, told the Pretoria News that he had been admitted to hospital due to the effects of the smell. “I was in hospital for weeks because of this. When the spillage started about five months ago, I went to the municipal office in Soshanguve and I was told a lorry would come and unblock he sewer. I waited for almost a week then I went to Acacia but to date, no one has come,” he said. Dried toilet paper and human waste were evident in his yard. Mahlangu said he resorted to hiring a plumber who charged him a lot. “I ended up hiring someone to make a pipeline so that all the dirt that was all over the yard would at least go on to the streets. “When I kept going back, I was told Tshwane didn’t have money to fix the problems. We had a picket with the hope that the matter would be resolved, and I had to spend my grant money to have the mess sorted; I paid R900 for labour and each of the pipes cost R200.” Moss said most of the sewerage lines were badly damaged and needed to be replaced. “The situation has been made worse by people putting inappropriate material inside the sewers. We have pulled out bricks, rocks, tins, buckets and other materials,” he said. A replacement project was under way and cost a lot. “We started last year with a sewerage pipe replacement project, with the first two phases being in Ga-Rankuwa and Soshanguve, which had the most blockages. “The project is continuing this financial year, with R20million being provided, R70m in the next year and R80m in the third year,” he said. They largely used outside service providers to clean sewers and unblocking in the City and there was a delay in finalising the new tender for the services.