Three decades is a long time to be doing the same thing, but McKenzie is as fanatical about the sport as the first day she started. She certainly has no plans to stop. Helping youngsters to master life skills while hitting and chasing after squash balls is apparently one of the most rewarding jobs there is. McKenzie’s passion was justly rewarded during the annual Squash South Africa awards function. She received the Biddy Castle award as coach of the year. She is the first recipient. “It is a huge honour for me. What makes it more special is that it was Biddy Castle who got me interested in taking up coaching. I attended one of her courses while I was at Pretoria Girls High School.” McKenzie used to be a good player. In 1981 she was ranked as the top female player at Tuks. She tried competing internationally, but due to the politics at that time it was almost impossible. Her playing career effectively ended after she was involved in a crash with a tractor just outside Tzaneen. Due to the severe neck injuries she sustained she could never play again, but there was no way she was just going to walk away forever from squash. So she started coaching. It's a decision she has never regretted. When asked what she considers to be the highlights of her coaching career, McKenzie jokingly referred to herself as a trailblazer due to the role that she played in creating an international awareness for squash. “In 1984 I coached at a kibbutz in Israel. There was no official squash court, so one of the barns was converted into a court. I could speak no Hebrew. “I only knew two words, one of which was "shalom". To complicate matters, the Israelis didn't understand English. “However, the language barrier wasn't going to stop us. I demonstrated what they needed to know. When they mastered something, I praised them using the only other Hebrew word I knew, which was the Hebrew for 'good'. “The better they got, the more repetitive my use of the word 'good' became. “I also coached in Minnesota, US. At the time, the Americans had just started to take to squash. The problem was that there weren't any proper squash courts, so I coached on racquetball courts.” Another definite highlight for McKenzie was coaching Tuks’ first Proteas player, Wian Lourens, in 2008. Since then another eight Tuks players went on to represent South Africa. McKenzie is proud that more than 100 Tuks players have been ranked in the top 10 in South Africa. McKenzie admits that it's a big thrill when one of her players wins a major tournament, but for her it's never just going to be about beating your opponent on court. “As a coach you get to change people’s lives for the better, and that is the real reward of my job.” She prefers not to answer the question as to how long she intends to keep on coaching. “There are so many milestones I still want to achieve, and I truly don’t know when I am going to stop coaching. “Every time a new youngster steps onto the court for the first time, and I see their sense of expectation, I get motivated all over again.” - African News Agency (ANA)