Hailed as the “King of Soul”, Hamilton’s distinctive voice has birthed hit songs including Best Of Me, Never Love Again, Pass Me Over, Her Heart, Pray For Me, I Cry, Comin’ From Where I’m From, and Freedom. He started singing at the age of 10 in a church choir, and worked as a barber before he broke on to the music scene in 1995. He has been nominated for 12 Grammy Awards, most recently What I’m Feelin’ (featuring background singers The HamilTones) in 2017. At a media briefing at MultiChoice’s head office in Randburg, the cool, calm and collected Hamilton had the room starstruck. “It’s good to be back,” said the chart-topper. “It’s been about three years, and I’ve been trying to get back ever since. “I like it here because I see so many people who look like me, my family and cousins,” he said. “Everybody is beautiful it’s good to see us as the centre of attention,” he said, referring to the fact that in the US white faces were used on billboards. The singer, songwriter and multi-platinum-selling hit record- maker said it was significant that he was here during Women’s Month, because he loves the idea of celebrating women. “I like to celebrate women, they have been a very important part of my life from my mother and sisters to my aunts. Women are just amazing, period!” said Hamilton who was raised by his grandmother. The megastar is newly single following his divorce from singer Tarshá, and is promoting his latest album, What I’m Feelin’. “I was going through a phase coming out of a marriage, where I was asking myself what it was that I am feeling, going into dating and trying to find myself outside of the marriage. “It was a time for me to let go of a lot, enjoy life, party, and connect with family and friends. Now it’s rock ’* ’ roll baby!” he laughed. Hamilton has had a long career in the music industry; many describe him as the bridge between old school pop and soul music. “I think that is behind my drive. The old taught me how to be who I am musically, from Aretha Franklin - whose amazing legacy lives on - Al Green, Bill Withers, not even that far back. “Also, the Boyz II Men and Jodeci era we have so many greats and even till today we have Fantasia, Jazmine Sullivan and the like" he said. For more info call 0860846377.