Van den Berg turned to the Gauteng High Court, Pretoria, saying the SABC terminated his services without hearing his side of the story. SABC technical producer Musa Msomi claimed that during a Sharks vs Hurricanes game at Kings Park in May 2016, Van den Berg told him “all blacks are incompetent”. Msomi subsequently laid a charge of racism against him with the SABC. Van den Berg vehemently denied he had uttered those words, saying he simply told Msomi to do his job correctly. He claimed Msomi, whose birthday it was that day, was under the influence of alcohol during the Super Rugby match. He also claimed Msomi was late for the broadcast so he told him to do his job properly. Van den Berg said the accusation gave the SABC enough reason to tear up his contract without hearing his side. He still had about a year left of his contract up to August 2017, he said. Despite him passing two polygraph tests that confirmed his side of events, the SABC stuck to its guns and he lost his income. The SABC argued Van den Berg had breached the terms of his agreement. It said Van den Berg, in front of other media, took out his frustrations on Msomi and told him “all blacks are incompetent”. This amounted to racism and hate speech, meant to humiliate Msomi, the SABC said. He was asked to make representations as to why his contract should not be terminated. The SABC ruled his conduct serious enough to terminate his contract. The media manager of the Sharks, Navashni Chetty, testified yesterday that she knew nothing about the run-in between the pair, but Msomi complained about another racist incident against him that day. About an hour after the game, she brought the coach of the winning team to the media lounge for interviews, she said. She noticed an unknown man (Msomi) and the security guard, only identified as Robbie, embroiled in an argument. “I asked what the problem was. The man said Robbie was a racist.” Chetty testified that Msomi complained that the guard abruptly stopped him when he stepped out of the media lounge into the stadium, while holding a glass and a plastic bottle in his hands. The guard told him he was not allowed to enter the stadium area with a bottle. Chetty said she explained this was the law at the stadium, but he became aggressive. She also claimed he smelled of alcohol. Msomi said he witnessed the guard allowing a white man with a glass in his hands to enter this area. This was the Under 21 team’s head coach, who apparently stuck his head around the door leading to the stadium to see the score. Msomi’s advocate said his client witnessed the guard allowing two white men to enter this area with glasses. Msomi was a non-drinker and not aggressive that day, he said.