As a parent to a pre-teen as well as being a high school teacher for 20 years, the life orientation, social sciences and English teacher made it a priority to try her best to equip herself and empower her children and pupils about the consequences that come from using cellphones. She said the modern-day child was thrown into the digital world at a young age, without the correct measures to see whether they were ready or not to deal with issues such as cyber bullying. “Cellphones are unfortunately a necessary evil, because we cannot get away from using technology. But we can teach our children beforehand about these gadgets and what they are capable of. “The problem is largely with what these pre-teens do with their. cellphones.” Botha said that at the beginning of the year she assigned a task to her Grade 7 pupils to interview various age groups on their cellphone usage. Based on their findings, they had to formulate their cellphone etiquette policy. Through the task they found out many had already encountered cyber bullying or inappropriate usage of social media. “What they found out was far too shocking; some of these pre-teens had been using social media without the knowledge of their parents, and some had connected with strangers on the internet. “They went on to websites without being cautious. Most of these pre-teens are not like teens; they are ignorant and innocent, so when they see some of the images they cannot erase them out of their minds.” She recommended a few terms and conditions for parents and guardians on how to deal with cellphone usage. Among them is that cellphones should not be handed to children to keep them busy. She advises parents to build relationships with their children so they discussed the purpose of the content they want to look for, and motivate to avoid parents leaving children without supervision on the internet. She said parents needed to discuss limits and boundaries of internet and social media use or no internet at all, and sensor the content they looked at on the internet. “While we do not have the choice to ignore the necessity of our children having a cellphone, we should be intentional in our navigation and set our own terms and conditions. "As parents, we should aim to be proactive. In an ideal world, if parents could agree on unwritten regulations, then we could minimise the added cyber peer pressure that our children are experiencing.” She said receiving their first cellphone should be a significant rite of passage and an exciting phase in a teenager’s life, not a sense of distraction that can destroy their innocence. Like learning how to ride a bicycle, children need to be taught first how to ride. To answer the question on the right age for children to receive their first cellphone, she recommended parents give their children cellphones when they were enrolled in high school. "At that stage, they are better equipped to deal with what they can encounter online," she said.