The State has called for a life sentence for 36-year-old Rehithile Katlego Matjane. The prosecution argued she planned to kill her sons, 6-year-old Keyondre Matjane and his 2-year-old brother Alvero Matjane. The mother fetched them from school on April 17, 2015, and drove them to the remote spot. She first shot the 2-year-old in the head while he was sitting in the front seat of the car, with his safety belt still on. The police found the dead child slumped in his seat, with a single bullet wound to his head. The older child’s body was found in a pool of blood outside the car. He too, had a bullet wound in the head and the arm. The court heard evidence that it appeared as if the boy tried to flee from his mother’s bullets. Matjane claimed she recalled nothing of the shooting, but the prosecution said she clearly planned this, as the firearm was loaded with five bullets - enough for her two sons and herself. The mother earlier testified she was severely depressed and wanted to commit suicide, but never came to do it. She blamed over the counter medication for her condition. Matjane said she suffered from headaches and menstrual pains for a few days prior to the incident and she took several types of over the counter medication and supplements. The defence argued that she had a short-lived psychotic episode owing to the medication, and she thus did not deserve a harsh jail sentence. The motive for the killing still remains a mystery, as Matjane told witnesses on the scene that her husband had threatened to leave her and to take her children with him. But both she and her psychologist husband, Dr Maxwell Matjane, vehemently denied any marital problems. The couple have, meanwhile, had another child, who is now about a year old. Dr Matjane has constantly been at his wife’s side during her lengthy trial. He and his mother are taking care of the child while his wife is back in jail after her conviction. Several police officers who attended the scene handed in statements to court in which they said they were still reeling from shock from what they saw. A statement was also handed in from a psychologist who assisted in counselling pupils at Loreto School in Queenswood, where Keyondre was a Grade 1 pupil. She said the children were extremely upset about what happened to their friend and they had to be provided with emotional support. The school arranged a memorial service and mass funeral for Keyondre. Afterwards his classmates and teachers gathered at a pond at the school, where they released balloons with messages and prayers for Keyondre and his brother. The school also mounted a plaque with Keyondre’s name on the school’s wall of remembrance. The court was told that the children’s death had a big impact on a lot of people. One of the hardened police officers who attend the scene, said: “To this day I still see the little faces of the dead children before me.”