Mayathula-Khoza yesterday asked for a full report with solid evidence on all allegations labelled against the centre, which led to employees going on strike. Staff have made allegations of racism, working for decades without work contracts, the abuse of patients by staff, being underpaid and more. Mayathula-Khoza asked for the report during her visit to the centre yesterday, saying she could only come up with an action plan to resolve the issues after a report has been compiled. The visit comes after a group of EFF members blocked entrances and refused entry for volunteers last week, placing the lives of the elderly in danger while employees went on strike. Employees went on strike last week demanding the reinstatement of three of employees who were suspended after they took part in a strike in March. They were led by the EFF, while police kept watch. The nurses, volunteers, chefs and cleaners chanted outside the centre demanding that the suspensions be lifted. They claimed to have worked at the centre for more than 20 years with no contracts and said they were underpaid and not allowed to take sick days They said employers deducted money from the little they earned. An agreement to lift the suspensions was eventually reached yesterday between the centre and the union representing workers. Mayathula-Khoza said: “I’m on the side of the beneficiaries for them to really be cared for, be protected, supported and be served in a manner which it is stipulated in our laws, Constitution and older persons legislation.” She conceded that if there were wrongs at the centre they needed to be corrected. “There’s going to be a full report and once we have it, there’s going to be an action plan on how we correct the wrongs at the institution. During a media briefing, racism allegations also emerged which Cas Weber, chairperson of the board at the centre, said they were not aware of. The EFF alleged there were certain floors at the building meant for blacks only and which were not in good condition. “I was under the impression that the top floor was normally for people that we get from hospitals that we know their stay will only be for two months or so. I never went to each floor to take account of how many whites or blacks (were there), which I’ll do now. “And if I find that whites and blacks are separated, then I’ll apologise as a board member for not going there. I’ll take it very seriously,” Weber said. Some patients said they had not had anything to eat since Thursday, with one saying she had not bathed since Tuesday last week. Workers eventually went back to work at around noon on Friday, after negotiations between their union and a lawyer representing management of the centre.