They are doing this through their latest scientific developments, which involve tackling health, food security and locally produced drugs. As a result, people with diabetes pricking themselves every day to test their blood glucose levels may soon be a thing of the past. This could become possible through the introduction of PhD candidate Valentine Saasa’s nanotechnology breathalyser. Saasa said this device would use breath to detect blood levels. “We ran trials at the Helen Joseph Hospital diabetic ward in 2016, where we found a correlation between blood glucose and acetone levels.” She said they were trying to miniaturise the invention into a more portable device. Dr Janine Scholefield, senior researcher at the CSIR, said they had also managed to combine two of the most advanced molecular technologies by making stem cells through skin and genome engineering. Simply put, they had managed to take skin graft samples to create stem cells for almost any cell type in the body. “In the lab, we have turned them into brain cells, liver cells, white blood cells and to beating heart cells in a dish, which is pretty amazing to see.” This can be used to create white blood cells that cannot be infected with the HIV virus, and one day could help scientists better understand how the virus works. They may also be used to make drugs better suited to the African demographic population. “Because sub-Saharan Africa has the greatest genetic variety in the world, there are mutations in the liver metabolism genes, leaving a significant portion of people unable to metabolise the drugs coming in from abroad.” Scholefield said their solution would be to take African variations, start genetically engineering stem cells to include local mutations, and sprinkle drugs on to them to find out what caused toxicity from drugs. They could perhaps create drugs that would be better suited to the African continent’s population. For food security shortages, the senior researcher from CSIR biosciences, Ghaneshree Moonsamy, said they were developing probiotics for animal production, to help deal particularly with protein and/or poultry shortages. Moonsamy said they were using probiotics to improve farm production efficiency. There was a need to create products locally to deal with organisms unique to Africa.