All the captured moments were put in a book, published two weeks ago, which she said was the first of many. Titled Girl and with pictures taken in the US, Portugal, Sweden, France, the Netherlands, Austria, Czech Republic, Macau, France, Belgium, South Africa, Monaco, Germany, Spain, Greece, Mauritius, Italy and England, it is a book in which she captured the moments of her child's girlhood, over eight years until the dawn of teenagehood. The book contains images she describes as mostly romantic with implied narratives of adventure and curiosity, moments the mother said were of Emma as an only child, and an attempt to get people to stop telling her an only child was alone and lonely. “Being an only child does not translate to loneliness.” And as readers are introduced to the pictorial journey, they come across a quote by the young child, in which she says: “When in huge spaces, I don't feel small, I feel big.” It all started in 2010 when the family immigrated to Amsterdam, the Netherlands, where she continued the photography career she had practised in the country, with portfolio exhibitions. She is described as a remarkable writer, actress and photographer, who graduated with a BA degree in drama ‘cum laude’ at the University of Pretoria. Koetje, who was born and raised in Pretoria, was also a writer for the SABC series 7de Laan for seven years and performed in numerous theatre productions. “I think it is a very nice thing that I did for her and she will appreciate it one day,” the mother said. “She is now a teenager, so is a completely different person from this person in the book, and that is what a lot of people do not realise about children. You have them for 10 years if you are lucky they grow up so fast.” She said she wanted to capture the precious moments of Emma’s childhood before they were gone: “They then become completely different human beings; it is like aliens come and take them and fill them up with hormones, suddenly they become so secretive. A child is a buoyant and outgoing extrovert a child does not walk, they run; they do not walk up the steps, they leap up; their energy is different, then the hormones come and suddenly they go inward and you can't get a word out of them. “So when you are talking about girl or boyhood, you are talking about a time in a person's life which is completely different from when they entered teenagehood. This is why this book ends at the dawn of teenagehood.” Inside the book are pictures of the girl alone, where the mother tried to capture her innocence; some were taken outside and others indoors, and they all take one through the journey of a growing child, from one stage to the other. Koetje said when she grew up in the 1970s her house was at the foot of a hill; she had enormous freedom and was hardly in the house. It was a completely different way from how her daughter grew up, she explained. When her publisher asked what the motivating factor for documenting her daughter's childhood was, her response was that it was a virtual response to her daughter and everyone said, “Oh, only the one”. Koetje is in the country to promote her book.