Different political parties have gathered at the Gencor Hall at the Tshwane University of Technology's Soshanguve South Campus for slain Katlego Monareng’s memorial service. Student groups including the Pan Africanist Student Movement of Azania (Pasma) which Monareng was a member, ANC, DA and EFF are uniting in song. From about 11am they all started singing various struggle songs, while they danced and ululated. The hall is expected to be packed to the brim this afternoon. Students are slowly tricking in. Also paying their last respect is TUT's Vice-Chancellor, Professor Lourens van Staden, Dr Eskia Moroka, Deputy Vice Chancellor of Students Affairs and Extra-Curricula Development and Professor Stanley Mukhola the deputy vice-chancellor. Different students structures are expected to address the attendees. Yesterday students marched to the police department in the CBD to ask the minister to speed up investigations regarding the death of Monareng. Monareng‚ a third level paralegal student, lost his life allegedly at the hands of the police during SRC elections last week. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.AdChoicesADVERTISINGinRead invented by Teads  Students have been demanding answers after an independent presiding officer was found with a box full of used ballot papers. Students had confronted the presiding officer‚ resulting in security services intervening. Students wanted to attack him, but security guards intervened and took him to the safety of their control room and called in police. It was during the scuffle that Monareng was shot twice in the head. The Independent Police Investigative Directorate(IPID) sad that it was investigating the incident. “The police reported that they fired at the ground with R5 rifles and that when they left‚ no one was injured but police vehicles were damaged‚” said IPID spokesperson Moses Dlamini. “[The police claim that they] were later informed that a student had been shot and injured. The student died in an ambulance en route to hospital on the R80 road‚” he said. He will be laid to rest in his hometown in Bushbuckridge, Mpumalanga on Saturday.