They moved from their three-bedroom home in Capital Park due to space constraints on Mandela Day this year, leaving the old house which accommodated six children and six caregivers for many years. The newer house has six bedrooms, is bigger and accommodates eight children with their eight caregivers. Among the bedrooms is an en-suite bedroom for children undergoing bone marrow transplants. CHOC regional manager Ina Schomper said the children undergoing bone marrow transplants came from high isolation situations but stayed longer at the house, and required the en-suite bedroom for more personal space. When the Pretoria News visited the home this week four children were staying there and, said Schomper: “We are very happy to have found a bigger house, which will accommodate more children with cancer. And although we have found a home, we still need support to sustain it; be it in a form of donations or volunteering.” She explained that it cost R600000 a year to run the house in a world where more children lived with and were diagnosed with childhood cancers. Schomper said most children under treatment for cancer needed accommodation because they travelled from far to receive treatment and, she said, treatment impacted on their survival rate, as that for children with cancer in South Africa was much lower than in other countries. This, she explained, was due to misconceptions and a lack of education and knowledge. She said: “We should diagnose 2500 children each year, but instead the figure is just over 900, which means we lose about 1500 children. But if you detect it earlier, the chances of survival are very high.” Another problem was that children often arrived late for treatment due to the lack of awareness among parents and, Schomper added, due to the referral system. “Symptoms for leukaemia are very similar to those of flu. They include fatigue, nausea and weight loss, among others. However, unlike flu symptoms they become persistent. The only mistake parents make is not seeking a second opinion from doctors. “Missed diagnosis, the referral system and distance play a huge role in children missing their treatment because our country does not have enough oncologists. As a result, children have to travel from as far as Mpumalanga to get treatment in Pretoria,” she said. The house is preparing to join the world in raising awareness, as September marks Childhood Cancer Awareness month. The foundation’s programme co-ordinator, Antonella Swanepoel, said September was a time when the world honoured and remembered children and families affected by the disease: “This is the time we rally around raising awareness on early warning signs of childhood cancer,” she said. Swanepoel pleaded with the public to “Give Hope and Go Gold" by purchasing one or more of their gold items, which include a temporary stick-on tattoo, shopping bag, nail varnish or a beaded or satin ribbon. The house is part of the CHOC foundation established in 1994 by a group of parents as a place where children who were undergoing cancer treatment could be accommodated for free. CHOC offers a variety of services to such children and their caregivers, which include raising awareness about cancer, providing support and counselling for parents as well as their siblings, and even providing transport where necessary.