This follows a deadlock in talks between Gautrain operator Bombela and the United National Transport Union (Untu). The Gautrain strike entered its 12th day, with no resolution in sight and commuters face a third week ahead with a restricted service. Yesterday the Gautrain announced that the Hatfield station would reopen on Monday. Trains will continue to operate every 15 minutes but only during peak times. The committee said after the CCMA’s unsuccessful attempts that it was “deeply concerned” about the impasse which was negatively affecting Pretoria and Joburg commuters who relied heavily on the Gautrain to get to and from work. It is understood that the committee has called for a meeting between Transport MEC Ishmael Vadi and Gautrain chief executive Jack van der Merwe in the next few days with the view to find ways of resolving the problem. “While we remain committed and available to engage further with the Untu so that an amicable agreement may be found to end the current wage deadlock, we have in the interim revised our current contingency plan,” said Gautrain spokesperson Kesagee Nayager. With some non-unionised workers returning to work, Gautrain was able to enhance the current reduced service that had been operating during peak periods this past week. The peak operating hours were increased yesterday from 5.45am to 9am and from 3.30pm to 7pm. These hours will also apply next week. Buses will service all stations during peak times. Trains will travel between Hatfield and Park, stopping at Pretoria, Centurion, Midrand, Rosebank and Sandton Stations. Passengers travelling between Hatfield and Park Stations will no longer be required to change trains at Sandton. A peak period train service will be available every 36 minutes between OR Tambo and Sandton stations, with a bus service every 20 minutes at off-peak hours. At other times there are no trains operating. Untu spokesperson Steve Harris said he hoped the decision by the Gauteng legislature to intervene would yield a “positive” resolution for the strike, in the interest of workers and commuters. “We are available over the weekend should they want to meet us to find a way forward,” he said yesterday. Harris said workers’ salaries had been affected by the prolonged strike, yet they remained adamant that they would not return to work until their demands for a 10% sal- ary increase with incentives were met. Bombela tabled two offers for 8.6% and 8.4% salary increases, with increases for a number of allowances requested, but the union rejected both. Over this weekend trains will not be operating between Pretoria and Park Stations. There is a bus from Pretoria to Sandton and a train from Sandton to OR Tambo Airport. Commuters are advised to check the Gautrain online for updates.