Commercial Aviation Association of Southern Africa chief executive Leon Dillman said the event was a must for everyone. Dillman said this year’s exhibition had already created enough excitement to attract countries like Saudi Arabia, Slovakia and South Korea to participate in the multi-national exhibition for the first time. “Guests will have an opportunity to see one of the best air shows on this continent. "We have not just local but international participations and various civil acts. We are also planning to have a huge grand finale for the closing event, that’s going to be a first for us - but I cannot talk about it at this stage,” he said. City spokesperson Lindela Mashigo said Tshwane was proud to be hosting this year's exhibition yet again and he was confident it would not be the last. “The City has invested close to R2million in this and we are hopeful to have spin-off in terms of the economy and in terms of destination marketing for our tourism industry. “We are not going to only have local people but international delegates and business people because this is a mega event that cuts across South African borders and reaches the entire continent,” he said. Mashigo was particularly impressed that the organisers had assured him they were reaching out to disadvantaged communities to experience defence exhibitions throughout the year, and they would do the same for ADD2018. Dillman said the first three days of the event would be be trade days for business-to-business deals, sales, networking and marketing. Members of the public were invited to take along their children on the public days on September 22 and 23. ADD2018 is expected to host 90 official delegations from 47 countries, 100 military and civilian aircraft and 450 accredited local and international media. This included numerous exhibitions from 37 countries, 35000 trade visitors and at least 80000 general public visitors. Numerous companies have confirmed specific aircraft they will be exhibiting, and the number is still growing. Organisers encouraged members of the public to download the ADD Expo 2018 application which is already available on Android and Apple. The app will allow users to live stream the air show and access daily content.