The influential body says children are too exposed to chemicals in food and packaging, which is linked to health issues such as obesity and cancer. It wants more regulation and rigorous testing of the chemicals we are exposed to. Bisphenol As (BPA) became the poster child for toxic plastic: hundreds of studies have linked even very low exposure with prostate damage, breast and prostate cancer, endocrine damage, behavioural problems, obesity, infertility, heart disease and diabetes. In 2003, BPA was detected in the urine of 92% of Americans: it has since been removed from a large section of the food chain, particularly baby bottles, sippy cups and other beverage containers. But BPA is one of a number of bisphenols; we live in a multi-chemical environment, with tens of thousands of additives used in food and cos- metics. The academy has also raised concern about PFCs, which are used in grease-proof paper, non-stick cookware and packaging; perchlorates, antistatic agents used in plastic packaging; and nitrates and nitrites, which are used in processed meats. The academy, which represents more than 37000 US specialists, says there are “substantial gaps in data about potential health effects of food additives”. It has questioned the widespread use of colourings, flavourings and chemicals added to food during processing as well as substances in contact with food (adhesives, dyes, coatings, paper, plastic and other polymers) that may contaminate food. It has called for “urgently needed reforms to the current regulatory process at the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for food additives”. The academy says an urgent, substantial improvement is needed of the food additives regulatory system, including “greatly strengthening or replacing the ‘generally recognised as safe’ determination process, updating the scientific foundation of the FDA’s safety assessment programme, retesting all previously approved chemicals, and labelling direct additives with limited or no toxicity data”. Dr Natalie Aneck-Hahn, the director of the University of Pretoria’s Environmental Chemical Pollution and Health Research Unit, agrees. Last month, Aneck-Hahn and Professor Tiaan de Jager (University of Pretoria dean of health sciences) voiced concern about cling film, after their research found traces of dangerous chemicals in eight brands. The researchers tested for endocrine disrupting chemicals (EDCs) - man-made contaminants found in food, personal-care products and the environment - such as BPA, phthalates and DEHA (diethyl hexyl adipate, which is banned from use in food products in some countries). Exposure to EDCs during sensitive life stages such as foetal development and early childhood is particularly concerning, because it can cause diseases, metabolic issues, immune system dysfunction, and problems with neurodevelopment and reproductive function. One brand in particular showed a high concentration of these chemicals, especially DEHA: only two, which are endorsed by the Cancer Association of South Africa (Cansa), were below the detection limit for all target chemicals. These risks represent a worst-case scenario and are based on using cling lm daily over a 30-year period, noted De Jager. Cling film contains plasticisers, which increase the flexibility of a material and decreases its viscosity and brittleness. These EDCs can leach from cling film into food, a process known as migration, which is affected by temperature, exposure to UV light and storage duration. But while migration is accelerated by high temperature, it is also affected by the types of food. Foods with high fatty content such as cheese, fish and meat are more prone to migration: especially those wrapped in plastic or clingwrap, which are defrosted or cooked in the microwave. Aneck-Hahn says that years ago, nonylphenol - once readily used in clingwrap - was found to absorb 100% into cheese within 24 hours. It’s now banned. “I believe it’s time that we started retesting all these products. Children are the most vulnerable to exposure. Per pound their exposure is higher,” she says. The Southern African Vinyl Association (Sava), the industry body representing the country’s major local cling film producers, has dismissed the research, saying it and other international bodies believe PVC products are safe and do not pose any risks to human health. They’ve questioned the research methodology, saying it has used “outdated information to arrive at misleading conclusions”. “The concerns raised by the publication of De Jager et al were thoroughly investigated already years ago, and still to date there is no scientific evidence that DEHA is carcinogenic to humans nor toxic to reproduction or an endocrine disruptor”, says Alistair Calder, chairperson of Sava. According to Calder, the European Commission has approved the use of DEHA based on an in-depth evaluation which was undertaken by an expert group reporting to the European Food Safety Authority. “PVC is used for very good reasons: performance, durability, safety and affordability. Because its main markets are in durable applications, the worldwide use of PVC is increasing at a healthy pace. “The vinyl industry takes great pride in its products. There is an immense amount of knowledge and science that have gone into PVC production and development. “Considerable thought and action is given to environmental sustainability, worker and consumer health, and safety. We have adapted to change and have made no compromises towards delivering a safe material to the market,” Calder said. Aneck-Hahn disagrees, saying the chemicals have a synergistic additive effect. “All these low doses might have no effect, but added together they can have a far-reaching effect. “We tested the brands at a recognised laboratory in Stellenbosch, did the initial health risk assessment We found these DEHA and phthalates levels at quite high levels. It’s more about the combination than just one compound. They’re trying to say DEHA is not an endocrine disruptor - it is. We never said we want it banned - we said use the Cansa-approved clingwrap.” It’s not about creating sensation around the use of plastics - Aneck-Hahn says we’re exposed to so many chemicals in our lives, it doesn’t mean people will get sick, but we must reduce exposure. With 87000 chemicals in the food chain that still need to be tested, she says you can’t avoid it. And levels have come down since 1997. De Jager said: “This means that manufacturers of cling lm are using safer alternatives compared to the materials previously used.”