This was the sentiment shared by an overwhelming majority of parents and school governing body (SGB) representatives who attended the first public meeting tabling the proposed changes to schools admission in Centurion on Tuesday night. However, Education MEC Panyaza Lesufi said that the proposed changes were to ensure alignment with the national legislation and comply with the constitutional court judgment of determining feeder zones. He said these would also clarify ambiguity following the court battles the department had faced most recently. These changes include ensuring the head of department had the responsibility for the admission and placement of learners to all public ordinary schools in the province. The function could also be delegated to a district director. This would ensure, according to the department, there was legal certainty and clarification regarding powers and responsibility of the head of departments as witnessed with the court battles over admissions at Overkruin, Montana and Hoërskool Overvaal. The department also proposes tightening the grip on schools' unfair, discriminatory practices against learners who don't have the relevant documentation, squarely placing the final authority of the admission of pupils in the hands of the head of the department. While governing bodies still retain the power to determine an admission policy, this would only be after the policy had been approved by the head of the department. Until such an approval had been granted, the policy would not be effective, as Lesufi said they wanted to avoid having governing bodies implementing unapproved policies. Feeder zones have also been altered from 5km to a 30km radius, in order to address spatial transformation, the department said. Documentation of entry phase learners must be submitted to the department within seven days of the end of the application period. Schools are also to report undocumented pupils to the provincial department which, according to officials, would facilitate proper documentation and compliance with the Department of Home Affairs legislation. Another complaint parents had was the order or preference of changes that were being made. Their main concern was that not all siblings would be able to find space at the same schools. The changes made in this regard are that the schools would take into consideration the feeder zones closer to the school, then siblings, parents' place of work and the adjusted application zone, Lesufi said. He added that the proposed changes would only be implemented for the 2020 academic year onwards. “I am not attacking any particular language. My own children went to an Afrikaans school, so why would I hate it?” he asked.