Tshwane municipal manager Dr Moeketsi Mosola is in hot water after Mayor Solly Msimanga on Tuesday recommended that he must be suspended in the wake of the latest scandal related to irregularities in the awarding of a multi-billion rand tender. Mosola was accused of flouting the city's supply chain management policy after the awarding of a tender to an engineering company called GladAfrica. The company was tasked with assisting city departments in rolling out their capital infrastructure programmes valued at R3.7 billion. In the wake of the allegations, Msimanga wrote to Mosola to get more clarity as to what transpired in the awarding of the three-year contract. For days he mulled over Mosola's responses. On Tuesday, Msimanga said: "After due consideration I am referring the allegations of tender irregularities to Council, specifically to investigate allegations of serious misconduct levelled against senior officials in accordance with the disciplinary regulations for senior managers in the Municipal Systems Act." Msimanga said he would ask Council to suspend suspected senior city officials for the duration of the investigation, "but as stated in the disciplinary regulations for senior managers, they will be afforded an opportunity to provide Council with reasons why they should not be suspended". He said: "During the past few months allegations about the process to appointment certain service providers have been made known to my office. Once a clearer picture emerged of what was being alleged, I immediately sought legal advice to provide guidance on all relevant facts, and to prepare a set of formal questions for the City Manager to answer." He said the questions were in line with the rules of natural justice and were asked before commencing formal disciplinary proceedings against the accounting officer and other senior officials in the interest of fairness and due process. "This process had already been initiated before the matter was first communicated on by the media –demonstrating this government’s commitment to accountability. After having received the responses and applying my mind, I have come to the determination that an independent investigation authorised by Council is the best way to establish the facts into allegations of irregularity by city officials," he said. Msimanga said that since he took over in August 2016 his DA-led administration has taken a number of multi-billion contracts, emanating from the City’s Supply Chain Management system, on review. "All these contracts were entered into during the ANC’s terms in office. My administration has a zero-tolerance approach to corruption and has taken active steps to prevent irregularities on my watch. "This has included opening the bid adjudication committee for public observation. This zero-tolerance approach is based on transparency and accountability and will inform how we respond to allegations of irregularity. This is why I believe an independent investigation into the allegations made into tender irregularities is vital," he said.