Xasa hosted some of the key role-players in female sport in the country where they were given a platform to voice their struggles and share ideas to bring about gender parity. “We are looking into the women in sports policy that will give us the strategy, looking forward so that we can see yourself on the bigger arena in sport,” Xasa said at the breakfast. “We want to understand what happens in terms of the development of women, payments and sponsorships and what we can do to attract the private sector to invest in women in sport. “This session today begins a journey towards developing women in sports policy.” The breakfast was part of Women’s Month celebrations and was attended by some of the country’s heavyweight female administrators such as Safa vice-president Ria Ledwaba, Sascoc caretaker boss Patience Shikwambane, current and former national athletes. The event was also attended by Olympic swimming legend Penny Heyns, former Banyana captain Amanda Dlamini and wheelchair tennis sensation Kgothatso Montjane. Some of the participants that commented during panel discussions bemoaned the lack of corporate investment in female sport in the country. Xasa, the first woman to become South African Minister of Sport, said she believes the country did well in terms of female participation compared to the rest of the world but the achievements did not receive the coverage it deserved. “We are doing so well when it comes to women and if you look at cricket and football we are actually doing really well,” she said. “But the extent to which those get exposed in our media, then we are not doing well.” To this effect, Xasa’s departmental director-general Alec Moemi shared some of the department’s achievements with regards to women’s sports. “In football, for example, we have deliberately decided to give nothing to Bafana Bafana but to instead plough money into the women’s teams as well as the juniors. “We have introduced the Hockey Premier League and there we piloted the same pay for both men and women. We now also have the Open Boxing League where girls and boys are given the same training and we have no doubt that we will have female boxers representing the country at the Olympic Games after Tokyo 2020.” Moemi waxed lyrical about the growth of netball in the country and the fact that the sport is now not only able to sustain itself with the advent of the Brutal Fruit League but is also the one sport where matches are almost always sold out. “It is very encouraging to see that the Ellis Park arena gets filled for matches. And my challenge to you as women is that you must support other women’s sports if they are to grow. Take your girl children to watch a Banyana match or a female boxing tournament just as you do a Soweto derby.”