Pretoria - The brother of the 39-year-old woman from Mamelodi West who was abducted from a local pub, drugged and gang-raped says the victim has threatened to take her own life several times since the incident happened. During the DA’s visit to the victim’s home this morning, she seemed traumatised and kept crying as her brother spoke about the ordeal. He said the incident had left the victim mentally unstable. According to the woman’s brother, she was taken to a shack in the area and the suspects are known to community members. “She doesn't remember much about what happened but somebody close to the family came and narrated the whole story to us. “We went to the place where she was allegedly raped and it was just a shack with a bed inside, no blankets and no lights. Apparently, the perpetrators locked her inside and raped her throughout the night,” he said. The brother is unsure if any suspects have been arrested in connection with the incident, however, police obtained a statement from the victim last week. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. The brother had previously told the Pretoria News the police did not want to open a case, insisting the victim did so in person. He said the family went to the police station to report the incident the same day, but they were turned away. He claimed police told them that the victim (who was in hospital) had to report the case in person. “She told police that she did not remember much when they came last week Thursday. She told them that she remembers receiving a call but doesn't remember from who, saying she should go to a local club to celebrate Mamelodi Sundowns victory against Kaizer Chiefs. “She further said she remembers a guy by the name of Thulani buying her drinks. She also remembers being in a car but doesn't know how she got inside and then she was offered cocaine and the next thing she woke up in hospital.” The DA’s Gauteng North Regional Chairperson, Abel Tau, assured the victim arrests will soon be made. Tau says he wrote a letter to the National Police Commissioner calling for the speedy arrest of perpetrators who might be involved. Pretoria News