Mabuza said it was for the umpteenth time he had told MPs he had never been involved in any wrongdoing during his time in Mpumalanga. But MPs were not relenting yesterday, saying the claims had been in the public domain for too long, and he had not come clean on his role. Mabuza said people must come with evidence to prove he was involved in murder and corruption. “Here I am, I am waiting for someone to open a case to say I have done 1, 2, 3. I have heard these allegations wherever I go. “In this House, I am responding for the third time. If you have any evidence approach any institution,” said Mabuza. He said people who continued to make the allegations were casting aspersions on his character, which was tantamount to character assassination. “I don't know whether I look like a criminal or a thief,” he said. Mabuza also said he would subject himself to lifestyle audits as announced by President Cyril Ramaphosa. Director-general in the Presidency Cassius Lubisi was busy finalising recommendations on how this would be implemented. Ramaphosa had said the Cabinet members would be the first ones to be subjected to lifestyle audits. This is a drive by Ramaphosa to clamp down on corruption in the government. The Cabinet will be followed by senior officials in government, MPLs and councillors across the state. Mabuza said he was part of the government and was willing to take part in the process. “The very fact that I am standing here (shows that) I am going to subject myself to every requirement of government,” he said. Cosatu had for years been calling for lifestyle audits of politicians. The ANC has also backed Ramaphosa in the lifestyle audits. Mabuza said there was no way he would refuse to be subjected to this process. “As deputy president of this country I am bound by the laws of this country. Whatever is going to be agreed by this country I am part of it. We are not going to pre-empt this process.” He said the vetting of the people had always been a factor in clearing up the system of government of people with criminal records. However, vetting didn't give a guarantee those who are clean would not be involved in corruption in future, he added.