Independent Media has been reliable informed by a source close to Amakhosi that they have enquired about Ndoro. The Zimbabwean is currently a free agent after cutting ties with Ajax Cape Town. He had been the centre of a storm after signing with the Urban Warriors, as it was contested Ndoro breached Fifa rules by representing three clubs in one season. Ajax were docked points and relegated after they were found guilty for fielding Ndoro. “Chiefs phoned Ndoro’s agent (Dumezweni Nkiwani) to inquire about his situation. It seems like they want him but they are yet to open talks. "They only enquired and his agent is waiting for Chiefs to come back to them,” a source revealed. Chiefs recently bolstered their attack with the signing of Khama Billiat from Mamelodi Sundowns, and upfront they now boast the likes of Billiat, Venezuelan Gustavo Paez, Bernard Parker and Ryan Moon. Amakhosi can still sign another foreign player as they haven’t exhausted their foreign quota, as so far they have Zimbabwean Teenage Hadebe, Paez, Colombian Leonardo Castro, Madagascar's Andriamirado “Dux” Andrianarimanana registered as foreigners. Willard Katsande, Billiat and Virgil Vries are registered as local players, as they've been in South Africa for more than five years. “Wits also showed interest but the problem is they have exhausted their foreign quota. But these teams always make a plan even. So, anything can still happen,” the source further elaborated. Nkiwani neither denied nor confirmed if Chiefs and Wits are really interested in Ndoro. “Yes, there is interest in the player but I can’t reveal names now. As soon as everything is done we will make a proper announcement. "We are still considering different options,” Nkiwani explained as he refused to be drawn in to the speculation linking Ndoro with Amakhosi and the Clever Boys. Chiefs have long had a reputation of signing Zimbabwean-born stars. In the past they have signed the likes of Tinashe Nengomasha, Brian Amidu, Thomas Sweswe, Kelvin Mushangazhike, Ovidy Karuru, Jimmy Jambo, Lincoln Zvasiya, Kingston Nkhatha, Matthew Rusike, Knowledge Musona, Mitchell Katsvario, Edmore Chirambadare and Onismor Bhasera. Currently Amakhosi possess three Zimbabweans in Billiat, Katsande and Hadebe. If Ndoro does sign for Amakhosi he will be fourth Zimbambean in Chiefs’s set up. Team manager at Chiefs Bobby Motaung denied that they are interested in landing the services of Ndoro. “There’s no such thing. We’ve never ever shown interest in him,” Motaung briefly explained. Chiefs will welcome Bidvest Wits tonight at FNB Stadium at 7.30pm.