The team closed off the Mandela Month by dedicating the day to beautifying the organisation and donating furniture. The home caters for abandoned, abused and neglected children from the area. “The children come from poor backgrounds, where their families cannot make ends meets,” said social work manager Winnie Mosupe. She said her organisation came through and offered therapy sessions for children to help them understand what was happening in their lives and the family they came from. “We care for orphans and vulnerable children in the community,” she said. The welfare's risk assessment manager Gloria Mangena said the painting and furniture donation was going to make a difference in the children's lives. “This is the area that they use the most; after school they come in here and do their homework, so this will really lift their spirits,” Mangena said. She said, however, the commission and other donors did not only have to visit the organisation during Mandela Month, but a mere visitation to play and motivate the children would be appreciated. “We appreciate everything you are doing for us, but you must know that you don't only have to come here when you have something to donate. You should also come just to play and motivate the children just so they know that they are loved.” The commission adopted the organisation as part of the corporate social investment last year. Its chief executive Dhesigen Naidoo said they adopted the organisation as it was in their neighbourhood and wanted to make a difference in the area they lived in. He said the earlier one started to nurture a child's life, the better the future of the entire country. “We understand that making a difference in a child's life determines what happens for the rest of their lives. Having a strong and confident child makes them pillars and future of the country.” The organisation has 40 children in early childhood development and 60 in the drop-in centre programme. The programme caters for orphans and disadvantaged children “drop-in” after school for a meal and school work support and social services.