 1. Are you from Tshwane? TN: Yes, originally from Soshanguve 2. What do you like most about the city? TN: I like the culture, language, people and the beauty of various sites. 3. Where do you hang out or go for fun? TN: Most of the times I'm at the club performing, but to relax and hang out I'm in various Soshanguve shisa nyama spots, sometimes at the movies at Wonderpark and shopping at Menlyn mall. 4. What things would you change if you were mayor? TN: Allocate resources equally among areas so that the underdeveloped townships can have the right infrastructure. It is worrying that in the same city, areas are positioned next to each other; one is without running water and using pit toilets. More investment and opportunities need to be directed to underdeveloped areas. 5. What is your job? Does it satisfy you? TN: I am doing what I love and am good at it. To see my music touching, changing and entertaining the masses is more than satisfaction to me. We did a song titled Top 7 which became very popular. People did not know my name at the time and they started calling me Seven and then my producer THM Da Reaper changed it to Seven Step." 6. What do you think are the advantages of living in the city? TN: Accessibility, convenience and infrastructure, plus the fact that most of the icons in my line of work are from or stay in Pretoria it's a great place to be in. 7. If you could move away from the city, where would you go and why? TN: To the City of Joburg because it learns a lot from Tshwane; even most artists in Joburg are from Tshwane. 8. Which sports teams do you support? TN: I'm a fan of Pirates and Man United. 9. What transport do you use and is it convenient? Mostly I drive. I like also to use public transport such as taxis and the train to engage with people and hear issues on the ground that will inform my music - and also to avoid traffic. 10. Are there any people that you look up to or have shaped your life in any way? TN: Truly speaking, I look up to my grandmother. Her patience and love for her community is amazing if I can be half the person that she is, I'll be a great man.