Maria Qamata told the hall full of students and staff how she had tried to commit suicide six times because her partner was abusing her. “I am still waiting for someone to say ‘I am sorry’; the person who broke me and hit me in front of our daughter.” Qamata grew up in a foster home in the Western Cape. She met a man who promised to take care of her financially. He brought her to Hammanskraal. She said he started beating her and calling her derogatory names. “The fourth time I tried to commit suicide, I did it in front of my 3-month-old baby.” Deputy principal Margaret Motloba said the college had to do more to respond to the cry for justice of women and children suffering from gender-based and sexual violence. “Now is the time for stronger action against perpetrators of physical or sexual violence against female students on our campuses. This still remains unreported and swept under the carpet by officials who protect perpetrators at the expense of our female students.” Motloba said she was aware of sexual favours in exchange for marks, but female students did not come out to expose the men. She challenged all females to speak out. If human rights violations are left unaddressed they pose serious consequences for current and future generations, the effects can remain with women and children for a lifetime and can pass from one generation to another,” she told them. Higher Education Deputy Minister Buti Manamela condemned acts of gender-based violence on university and college campuses. “It cannot be a business-as-usual attitude while this still happens on our campuses. “It is a devastating reality, so we must use these kind of platforms to turn victims into victors. With the platforms we are trying to put up at campuses, we are pushing our students to speak with urgency when to expose perpetrators.” Manamela warned against those who even fondled female students and said it was those small things that males unknowingly and consciously do to violate women’s rights. “Imbizos like this one we are having today provide the platform for sharing information and interrogating complex issues that will allow us to understand the root cause of gender-based and sexual violence.” After listening to what the students had to say, Manamela said the department would implement psychosocial and medical support for survivors.