Thousands of women kicked off this Women’s Month by taking part in the national #TotalShutdown, with marchers in Pretoria following a route from the CBD to the Union Buildings where they waited into the night to hand over a memorandum to President Cyril Ramaphosa. Women gathered in other cities and provinces, calling for an end to violence against women and children. Tomorrow too there will be a march, a reminder of the most famous of all our women’s marches: when 20000 women marched on the Union Buildings to protest the apartheid pass laws. Activists said although the impact of the various marches could not be seen in a reduction in gender violence, they were keeping the issue in the minds of society and various stakeholders working in the area. Christi Kruger, researcher and project manager, at the Centre for Sexualities, Aids and Gender at the University of Pretoria, said it was difficult to determine the extent of the effect of marches as, for the last decade, calls had repeatedly been made by organisations for intervention to take place. She said people had grown tired of not seeing change from year to year, and for this reason there had been an upsurge in the number of of public protests. “From #FeesMustFall to #ZumaMustGo, to #100MenMarch, the more visibility issues have, the better as events do not take place in isolation,” she said. And, although there is no statistical evidence of the marches’ impact, the fact remained that on those particular days women, men and gender organisations had a platform to raise their concerns and tell their stories. “What’s important to note is that change regarding this issue is not going to happen overnight. Because it’s an issue that stems from a complicated history embedded in social, economic, political norms.” Ishtar Lakhani, advocacy manager at the Sex Workers’ Education and Advocacy Task Force, said the difference from recent protests against the scourge of violence, was that they were being driven from the ground up. And not just through organisations and government initiatives, but ordinary women. And while the marches did a lot for visibility, Lakhani said it was disappointing that no national strategic plan on gender-based violence had been detailed and neither had any gender responsive budgeting been afforded. “The reason there is no plan in place is because there is no political will in place to do the work. “For now however the call is louder than ever that men have to acknowledge the benefits they have because of the patriarchal society we live in.” From the government’s input Lakhani said there was a desperate need for gender-responsive budgeting and policies and laws to that effect and also for finance to be channelled to sexual courts and resource centres. She said: “To date government has dealt with GBV through a kind of ‘tokenism’ by setting up ministries with not much effect and still not looking at discriminatory laws. “At the end of the day the conversation regarding GBV has to be dealt with on multiple levels, in homes, churches, areas where people congregate, anywhere and everywhere.” Mbuyiselo Botha, commissioner of the Commission for Gender Equality, said marches were making an impact in that they were creating an awareness and contributing to the broader consciousness. “These marches are empowering women all over and are symbolic by ensuring the issue remains on the radar. If anything they are giving us a reason to continue,” he said. What was of concern, he said, was the lack of funding towards the issue, with organisations such as People Opposing Women Abuse and other organisations doing the groundwork facing closure due to lack of funding. “It’s not about numbers that turn out to these marches, but rather about the commitment. So moving forward it’s about making sure the policies and laws are backed financially.”