The third-year law student, believed to be a member of the Pan Africanist Student Movement of Azania, was shot dead on Thursday night amid allegations of vote rigging during SRC elections. His family will arrive from Polokwane this week to identify the body. On Saturday, the leader of DA Youth, Luyolo Mphithi, MP; the party’s deputy federal chairperson Natasha Mazzone; Gauteng North regional chairperson Abel Tau; and DA Youth provincial chairperson Pogiso Mthimunye led a picket outside the Soshanguve police station. They chanted revolutionary songs for almost two hours, and blocked a section of Commissioner Street. Tau said he wrote to the Independent Police Investigative Directorate (Ipid) and Police Minister Bheki Cele asking for an investigation into why live ammunition was used on the students. He also called for whoever was responsible for the deployment to be brought to book. “People who are making these wrong decisions of deploying a wrong unit in a volatile environment must be taken to task. You can’t have a station commissioner sending in a crime-fighting unit where you need crowd control, because those people have live guns. “We have someone who died simply because somebody is lazy to make proper decisions. We wrote to the minister to say this needs to stop because such incidents will always occur. The problem here is not that the police were carrying live ammunition but that the wrong unit with no proper equipment was deployed,” Tau said. The police claim to have fired shots at the ground, but students blame them for shooting and killing the student. Tau said the DA was confident about the case as the Ipid had already intervened. “We appreciate that Ipid has intervened and the bullet has been retrieved and has been sent for ballistic testing, so definitely there is a movement in that direction.“Whenever there is a problem people get into defensive mode. We accept that a full investigation must be made and the truth will be told. The question is who had live ammunition? It was the police and it is disingenuous for them to think that no one was injured,” said Tau. The DA Student Organisation (Daso) at TUT head Thabo Moalosi said students were not safe on campuses. He blamed the ANC, saying the company responsible for running the elections at TUT had been hired by the party. ANC-aligned South African Students Congress (Sasco) and the ANC Youth League are currently running the SRC. “We are not safe here at all, we have a problem with the ANC in the university. What happened on election day is that students wanted free and fair elections.” Moalosi said elections were rigged. “We want re-elections. Daso is going to win and they are panicking. Sasco and ANC Youth League must be banned from this university,” he said. Moalosi said 1000 ballot papers, all marked ANC Youth League, were found in the possession of an official working directly on the elections. Mthimunye said they failed to understand why live ammunition had to be used. “We just don’t understand how it happened in a democratic South Africa that police will kill students who are not armed that’s not how you control public violence; you do not shoot with guns. “We just want to highlight that police brutality is not acceptable in 2018, and it’s unacceptable that a student went to study but goes home dead. We also want this case to be processed very quickly,” Mthimunye said.