A definite highlight was the performance of the men’s 4x100m relay team. Simon Magakwe, Henricho Bruintjies, Emile Erasmus and Akani Simbine not only won, but set a new South African record running 38.25. Their winning time was 0.09 faster than the previous record. The national 4x100m relay team seems to be making a habit of winning medals at major events. Simbine and Erasmus were also part of the relay team that won a silver medal during the Gold Coast Commonwealth Games in Australia. From a Tuks/HPC perspective, the performance of Cornel Fredericks deserves special mention. He was second in the 400m hurdles. His performance proves that perseverance and dedication do pay off. It was the first time in four years that he had won a medal at a major international event. Fredericks “glided” to victory at the 2014 Commonwealth Games in Glasgow and won the African title in Marrakech. To top it all, he was the first to finish in the IAAF Nations Cup 400m hurdles race in Marrakech and finished third in the Diamond League 400m hurdles standings. Another highlight was ending the season as the third-fastest athlete having run 48.25. The consensus at the time was that Fredericks was going to be the next real deal as far as 400m hurdling was concerned. But sport can be cruel. Since his golden year in 2014 “Lady Luck” seemed to have deserted him. He was hampered by various injuries, his biggest frustration being an Achilles heel injury. Added to that was his awful luck with coaches. In the past nine years, he has been coached by five coaches. In spite of this, he never lost belief in his abilities, saying time and again that he knew he was good enough to race against the best if injury-free. He also revealed he had unfinished business on the track. Hopefully winning a silver medal in Asaba is going to be the turning point in his athletics career. Fredriech Pretorius (decathlon), Rikenette Steenkamp (100m hurdles) and Chris Moleya (high jump) were the other Tuks athletes who won silver medals. Wenda Nel (400m hurdles) was third in her event. - African News Agency (ANA)