ONE patient lay in what seemed to be her own pool of feaces while a stone’s throw away was what looked like vomit, which further gave the room a strong scent. The person was one of many frail patients at Huis Davidtz Retirement Home in the CBD, who have for the past three days been left unattended while staff, who have worked there for decades without work contracts, went on strike. In March the staff went on strike and then three of them were suspended for their participation. They were led by the EFF and the police kept watch, and disgruntled nurses, volunteers, chefs and cleaners chanted outside the centre, demanding the retraction of their suspension. Sipho Ditshego, Dolly Mashifa and Mapule Letswale were handed the letters last week. They said they had worked at the centre for more than 20 years with no contracts and were underpaid, were not allowed to take sick days off, and employers deducted money from the little they earned. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  When the Pretoria News walked through the two floors inside the home they were met by a strong distinctive smell with patients’ clothes strewn all over the floor. Some patients told the media that they had not had anything to eat since yesterday. Another one said she had not bathed since Tuesday. Workers eventually went back to work at around noon after negotiations between their union and management of the centre. The Non-Academic Staff Association’s Mpho Morolane said there would be yet another go slow should there an agreement not be met. “We agreed that there should be a retraction of those suspensions and the lawyer representing the board of the centre agreed. We further stated that for negotiations to resume workers should form part of the negotiations and I’m under the view that all this will be resolved amicably,” he said. Should they be arrogant, there will be a go slow again on Monday, Morolane said. MMC for health, Sakkie Du Plooy, condemned the workers for leaving the frail patients unattended. “Workers have issues that have not been fully dealt with, they are not happy. But what’s bothering me is that the patients were left unattended, the situation is bad. “Many of the patients are mentally disabled but they lie there in their urine, they are in a bad space. They are not cleaned, it is really terrible,” he said. "I only saw two nurses on a floor where there’s supposed to be eight, he said.