He is now due to receive R140000 in damages after Gauteng High Court, Pretoria, Judge Dawie Fourie ruled in his favour, while acknowledging there was no doubt the police performed an essential and very important statutory duty. “Sometimes this is done under very difficult circumstances. Unfortunately, this case is another example of abuse of police power.” The fact that the police acted on their own frolic will cost taxpayers dearly, as they will have to pay for the damages. To make matters worse, the police insisted they acted lawfully. It was only on the steps of the court that they conceded the officers had no reason to arrest Tolo Molefe. They, however, did dispute the amount of damages he wanted. The 47-year-old claimed R300000 in damages from police following his harrowing ordeal in April 2014. At the time, Molefe was a truck driver for a company that did contract work in the mining sector. From time to time he transported mining equipment and “dangerous goods”. On the day before his arrest, service delivery unrest broke out in Boitumelong, North West, and the municipal building was burnt down. On the day of his arrest, he was having lunch at the England Tavern and Restaurant in Bloemhof, in the North West, when a policeman asked him whether he knew anything about the arson. Molefe explained he was not a security guard at the building, but a truck driver. He also said he knew nothing about the incident. The policeman became agitated with him and arrested him in front of the other patrons. When Molefe asked what the charge against him was, police couldn’t answer him. He was detained in an overcrowded police cell with between 30 and 50 others. Molefe said the cell was about 5m x 9m and only had one toilet. There were no mattresses and the inmates had to share two blankets between them. They were only given two meals a day consisting of three slices of bread and a cold drink. He was told to go home after three days. In awarding him R140000 in damages, the judge said he took into account that Molefe was arrested for no reason and detained for three days under appalling conditions. “Not only was he deprived of his liberty, he was also subjected to extremely humiliating circumstances. Sharing a small room with many other suspects, an open toilet, no mattress and only two blankets to share, says it all.” The judge said Molefe deserved to be compensated for his hardship.