Infrastructure Development MEC Jacob Mamabolo is today scheduled to hand over the iconic facility to his Sport, Arts, Culture and Recreation comrade Faith Mazibuko. And tomorrow, those participating in the 2km walk in commemoration of the 62nd anniversary of the historic 1956 Women’s March will have an opportunity to visit the memorial. Thereafter, they will retrace the steps of the 20000 women who set off from the site and marched to the Union Buildings in protest against the apartheid pass laws. The streets of Pretoria will come alive when Premier David Makhura leads the march to mark the 2018 Women’s Day, a public holiday. The monument depicts the story of women’s contribution to the liberation Struggle and features four statues of the leaders of the march - Lillian Ngoyi, Sophie de Bruyn, Helen Joseph and Rahima Moosa. The four women led the 1956 anti-pass law march, which was attended by about 20000 women from all parts of the country, some carrying babies on their backs. The women delivered a petition to the then prime minister JG Strijdom against the carrying of the dompas and general degradation of women. This year’s march will coincide with the centenary birthday of an anti-apartheid Struggle icon, Mama Albertina Sisulu. It is organised by the Department of Sport, Arts, Culture and Recreation under the theme “100 Years of Albertina Sisulu, Woman of Fortitude: Women United in Moving South Africa Forward”. Mazibuko said demonstrators would retrace the steps of the 1956 anti-pass law protesters by marching from the heritage monument to the Union Buildings. Mazibuko said: “During this Women’s Month, Gauteng will join South Africa and the world in celebrating the centenary of Mama Albertina Sisulu, who was instrumental in South Africa receiving the democracy that we enjoy today.” She said the 2018 Women’s Day tomorrow was going to be special because it would mark the year of the triple centenary. “Besides the birth of Mama Albertina Sisulu, the country is also celebrating and commemorating the centenary of Tata Nelson Mandela as well as the formation of the Bantu Women’s League,” she said. Mazibuko said the march would be used to highlight the different social challenges faced by women such as gender-based violence, inequality, unemployment and poverty. “Although noticeable gains have been made in addressing the plight of women in the province, a lot still needs to be done in bridging the inequality gap between men and women and in ensuring that women become active agents of the economy,” she said. Metro Police spokesperson Senior Superintendent Isaac Mahamba said marchers would gather from 7am at Sammy Marks Square, on the corner of Lillian Ngoyi and Helen Joseph streets before they depart for the Union Buildings. “The march will start at Sammy Marks Square where it will move in an easterly direction into Stanza Bopape Street. “The march will then proceed straight to the Union Buildings.” He said intersections along Stanza Bopape Street that would be affected included Sisulu and Du Toit streets, Nelson Mandela Drive, Steve Biko Road, and Hamilton and Leyds streets. “The march is expected to reach the Union Buildings at 11am. The marchers will later be picked up by buses at the corner of Hamilton and Stanza Bopape streets.” Mahamba said metro police officers would be deployed to monitor the march and all affected streets. “Motorists are advised to avoid affected streets and use alternative routes such as Struben, Johannes Ramokhoase, Pretorius, Francis Baard and Nana Sita streets.” Mayor Solly Msimanga will today launch the City’s Women’s Market in celebration of International Women’s Day and Women’s Day at Tshwane House. Msimanga said the market was aimed at celebrating the role women play in society. The market was also to empower women traders during Women’s Month, the mayor said.