His description of the world and how it (unfairly) operated was precise and compelling. A straight arrow, he was unapologetic in his call for revolutionary change, but also understood the complexity of the tasks at hand. I was introduced to Amin's work in 2014 while reading for a post-graduate degree in international relations. I was captivated by his work. Amin described an alliance that dominated the world as “the triad”. The triad essentially consists of the US, Western Europe and Japan. On its own, this description is not really riveting. What is exciting, however, is that the triad was not neat with just three members. It was messy with some interesting hanger-on countries. Amin included Australia and Canada as a part of this collective imperialism. Because of my love for cricket and rugby, I could easily believe Australia being part of a global imperialist network, but Canada? Canada, in my view, is supposed to be the one of the good guys. It seems (to be) so nice. We never hear of the Canadian government threatening any country. But Amin, this doyen of left intellectualism, pegged Canada as “not that good a guy ”. I recall years ago my friend telling me that to be handsome, one must just have ugly friends, and that's why I was one of his closest buddies. Canada may have mastered that strategy, and seems to get away without much scrutiny because it is not the US. Many Canadians may sound like Americans, (including) music artists such as Drake, Justin Bieber or Alanis Morissette, but Canada does not lose the title of being non-threatening. Yves Engler's groundbreaking book, published in 2015, Canada in Africa: 300 years of aid and exploitation, attempted to lift the lid on Canada's duplicitous role throughout the ages, exposing how Canada benefited from the transatlantic slave trade and the scramble for African resources. However, not many took notice of it. We should be more cognisant of countries such as Canada that have economic strategies involving the exploitation of Africa's resources. In June 2016 in the American political magazine Counterpunch, Engler highlighted that Canada was home to 0.5% of the world's population but, interestingly, pointed out that half of all the internationally listed mining companies operating in Africa were Canadian. The article further highlighted the most reprehensible corporate practices in some of the poorest areas in the world. In April 2016, a Tanzanian tribunal found Canadian company Barrick Gold guilty of a “sophisticated scheme of tax evasion”. Canadians pride themselves that they are not like their Big Brother neighbour, the US. Canada is still home to a number of South Africans, who settled there during exile from the apartheid state. There are many progressive NGOs and international welfare organisations based in Canada, who support a number of global human rights solidarity campaigns. Indeed, Canada is regarded as a place where human rights and freedom are central to citizen culture. But it seems the corporate practices of Canadian mining companies are as guilty as other mining companies of conniving with local corrupt elites to displace communities, use exploitative labour practices, evade tax and so forth. Canadian citizens enjoy a high standard of living and genuinely support that the world should be a better place. They believe that Canada's greatness is because of how productive and honest they are - making it doubly difficult, if not impossible, for the average Canadian to acknowledge that Canadian mining companies in Africa are not only polluting the environment but participate in part of the corruption. In reality, the rapacious profit-taking probably bears greater responsibility for the high standard of living than the productivity and honesty of Canadians. Canada represents the complexities of changing the reality of global inequality and injustice. But alas, it is not just Canada. There is a legion of countries in the political North who do not conjure up an image of the classic chauvinistic macho American politics of (Donald) Trump but in essence are what keep the machine chugging away. Take Sweden, for instance, famously neutral, never participating in war, yet a large part of its economy is based on the manufacturing of arms. Maybe we should heed the warning by Cartman and his buddies in the American cartoon series, South Park, and expose the hypocrisy of countries like Canada so that a genuine dialogue takes place rather than perennially blaming the US. Donovan E Williams is a regular social commentator and activist.