This follows reports that the private residence in Brooklyn was barred from participating in the singing contest, Sêr A Cappella Competition, because it did not meet the university’s transformation targets. Last week AfriForum Youth said it condemned the ruling by the University of Pretoria Student Culture Committee that barred Sonop men’s hostel from participating. The group said Sonop participated under the name of a registered association, Blossoms Delight, after its affiliation with the university was cancelled early in the year. The Student Culture Committee found the hostel did not adhere to the university’s transformation targets. It was declared that Sonop was therefore no longer part of the university. “It is clear that a registered association is now deprived of its right to participate in university events simply because it is too white, according to the university, and does not meet the university’s definition of transformation. This is nothing less than discrimination based on race. “Students should be considered equal regardless of their race. Now they’re excluded principally because of their race,” said Ohann Fourie, national co-ordinator of campus structures for AfriForum Youth. AfriForum Youth said it would assist Sonop men’s hostel in the process to be followed after the decision. “We cannot allow discrimination against students based on their race. How is it possible your singing and participation in Sêr depends on your race?” asked Fourie. He said that this was a problematic issue increasingly rearing its head on campuses countrywide. “More and more student organisations are barred from student life and events because they do not adhere to national demographic transformation policies,” Fourie said. But Sonop owner Kobbie Botha said he didn’t appreciate Afriforum involving itself in private affairs just to try to score political points. “We have made it clear that we are a private and apolitical residence. We can manage our own affairs quite efficiently. “We don’t need AfriForum siding with us; we are more than capable of handling our business,” he said. Botha admitted that some residents were in fact barred from participating from the competition, but said it had nothing to do with the admission and racial targets of Sonop. Botha said Sonop was also not obliged to carry out the mandate given by the university with regards to the racial dynamics. “We have are own mandate and targets that we are working with,” said Botha. University spokesperson Rikus Hendrik confirmed that the Student Culture Committee, made up of student representatives, decided to withdraw Blossom’s Delight - made up of residence from Sonop - from the A Cappella Competition as its entry did not comply with the required rules and regulations of the committee. “The decision was not only based on transformation targets, but also the undertones of the theme and songs were found to be borderline sexist and racist by the committee, among other things.” In February the university banned Sonop residence from participating in most of the university’s activities, saying it had not transformed enough. Sonop did not participate in the 1nSync and Rag. It was alleged that out of the 160 residents at Sonops, only six were black and coloured.