Police spokesperson Charity Charamba confirmed the number of people killed during the protest had gone up to three. The army tanks, last seen when Robert Mugabe was deposed in November’s soft coup, rolled into town manned by heavily armed soldiers. The riot police were equally brutal in quelling youths who burnt cars, threw stones, burnt tree branches and littered. Riot police fired water cannons, stun grenades and tear gas, forcing the youths to retreat into the Harare CBD. Army helicopters could be seen hovering over the capital in a show of force by the the same army that turned its guns against the very people it marched with when getting rid of Mugabe nine months ago. It only made matters worse as the CBD fast degenerated into a war zone. The military allegedly fired live bullets in the running battles against the angry MDC youths that accused President Emmerson Mnangagwa’s Zanu-PF of cheating their way to victory. “Zanu yabirira, Zanu yabirira (Zanu has cheated),” chanted the stone-throwing youths. Zanu-PF recorded a landslide victory over the MDC Alliance led by Nelson Chamisa in the parliamentary polls, apparently triggering the violence. Zimbabwe Electoral Commission (ZEC) chairperson Priscilla Chigumba confirmed that Zanu-PF had a won a two-thirds majority with its 145 seats that allowed it to change the constitution. The MDC was a distant second with 64 seats, while the little-known National Patriotic Front got one seat and Temba Mliswa emerged as the only independent candidate to clinch a seat. By close of business yesterday, the army and police had taken over the burning capital, barricading only major roads. MDC Alliance leaders, including Chamisa, have been partly accused for the deadly violence which erupted. Chamisa tweeted that he had won the “popular vote” as the crowd swelled close to the election command centre demanding the release of the presidential vote. MDC secretary-general Douglas Mwonzora went on radio calling the elections a “fraud”. Mnangagwa called for calm and for Zimbabweans to wait for the official announcement of the presidential result. “We must all demonstrate patience and maturity, and act in a way that puts our people and their safety first,” Mnangagwa said on Twitter. MDC and Chamisa’s spokesperson, Nkululeko Sibanda, rejected that his party was to blame for the violence. “The only violence we must talk about is that people are dead. The MDC did not open fire on unarmed civilians. “Why are soldiers policing streets? Police are the only law enforcement to deal with protests which by the way are a democratic right,” he said. Sibanda, as with other MDC leaders, called the election a fraud when launching a scathing attack on the ZEC. “ZEC should be held accountable for this chaos. They have cooked the election figures of parliamentarians and are currently cooking the presidential numbers,” bemoaned Sibanda. Zanu-PF legal affairs secretary Paul Mangwana said the fear among the MDC supporters was that the presidential poll result expected today would mirror the parliamentary outcome and keep Mnangagwa in power. “They fear losing and have chosen a violent path. The MDC must allow the ZEC to do its work unhindered as the observers have requested,” said Mangwana. The African observer missions lauded the elections as free, fair and credible with only the EU expressing some concern hours before the violence erupted. The AU delegation said: “Despite the large voter turnout, voting took place in a generally peaceful and orderly environment.”