Among them was Minister for Co-operative Governance and Traditional Affairs Dr Zweli Mkhize and MEC for Health Dr Gwen Ramokgopa. Minister of Higher Education and Training Naledi Pandor was also present. Mkhize first applauded President Cyril Ramaphosa for declaring that the late Dean of the Faculty of Health Sciences of the University of Cape Town would receive a special provincial funeral. He described Mayosi as an outstanding man who started university at the early age of 16, and graduated with two degrees. “Comrade Mayosi was also an activist and at some point was recruited to uMkhonto weSizwe. “What has been described of Mayosi is what we all have experienced in his presence. What stands out is that of a caring and very passionate person who had a deep love for his family and also for humanity. “When he talks, he doesn’t just talk about people here but he talks about people all over the country, to the extent that he wishes his work could impact people.” Mkhize said he was proud that there were numerous other commemorative services taking place across the country to honour Mayosi. He said memorial services simultaneously took place at the same time in KwaZulu-Natal. Scholars who knew Mayosi described him as a great leader. They said he inspired people with his great work in health sciences and achieved his greatness against racism, discrimination and white supremacy. Professor Nathaniel Mofolo from the University of the Free State said Mayosi died before he was given an award in science for discovering a gene linked to heart diseases. He said Mayosi had made a huge and impressive breakthrough in health sciences. He was an undeniable success that Africans could look up to with pride and respect. Professor Author Rantloane of the University of Pretoria and Colleges of Medicine of South Africa, said Mayosi was a spear, an exceptional person who influenced science as an A-rated researcher. He had always fought to change how black health professionals were undermined and put in situations where they needed to always prove them-selves against “the white master”.