The couple, who cannot be identified to protect their daughter, said they were in utter shock when they were told after the birth that the child “was not normal”. They blamed the specialist and said he was negligent for failing to detect, during prenatal screening, that the 28-year-old mother was carrying a baby with Down Syndrome. In their claim before the Gauteng High Court, Pretoria, the couple said they would have aborted the foetus if they knew what the situation was. They claimed damages for their suffering in raising the little girl and all the expenses which went along with raising a child with Down Syndrome. The couple felt they were not given adequate information during the woman’s pregnancy regarding genetic screening for Down Syndrome. They also complained that the doctor did not do proper tests to detect any abnormality with the foetus. Judge Vivian Tlhapi said in her judgment there was always a possibility of a woman giving birth to a child with an irreversible congenital or genetic disorder. In certain cases the risk increased as the woman grew older. Screening and diagnostic tests have been developed to assist in identifying these disorders in women at risk of giving birth to a child with abnormalities. Therefore, the judge said, antenatal management was important and it had become common practice to make these tests available to women in the early stages of their pregnancy. The mother testified she went to the specialist in April 2011, where he did an ultrasound and all seemed well. She returned the following month when the specialist said he was going to, among others, check for Down Syndrome by doing a scan and by measuring the thickness of the baby's neck. But this could not be done on that occasion as the baby was not lying in the correct position. The mother was told to return a few days later, as this was the window period within which he could detect the measurement. This test could also not be done the second time around as the baby was lying in the wrong position. Blood tests were done the following month, but the mother said the results were not discussed with her. The mother said she was in a state of shock when the baby was born in November 2011 with Down Syndrome. She said one knew about these things but “you never realised it could happen to you”. The parents accused the specialist of not being adequately trained to conduct the ultrasounds to measure the neck of the foetus. If this was done properly, they said, Down Syndrome would have been detected and they would have aborted the foetus. The specialist admitted that he could not measure the neck of the foetus as it was lying in the wrong position, but said he did other run of the mill tests and the risk of Down Syndrome seemed low. He said of the 2680 babies he had had delivered, only two suffered from Down Syndrome, which included this baby. The judge found that the doctor did not act negligently and that he did all the tests he could. She said the mother was 28 at the time and did not fall within the group of patients where there was a risk of giving birth to a Down Syndrome baby.