The incident has left the woman mentally unstable and undergoing counselling. Her family said she had contemplated suicide. The participants, led by #NotInMyNameSA, marched to Mamelodi West police station to hand over a memorandum in which they called for a speedy inquest into her death. The group wanted the case to be prioritised, and for an investigation to be carried out with the utmost diligence. They also want police officers who turned back her family when they went to report the incident to be fired. Marchers convened at Maseko Section from 10am. Before the march, #NotInMyNameSA campaign mobilised Vukani-Mawethu High School pupils to join the march. The victim could not participate as she was attending counselling at a local clinic, her brother said. Two weeks ago, he told the Pretoria News that she had contemplated ending her own life as she believed the wheels of justice were turning way too slowly. He said the family was grateful for the support of the community and was hopeful justice would soon prevail. “We thank the community for the support; it really means a lot. After today, we are hopeful that perpetrators will soon be brought to book. “About my sister, she’s still not okay because the perpetrators are still roaming the streets, but I hope she will soon be okay,” he said. The secretary-general of the #NotInMyNameSA campaign, Themba Masango, slammed the police for not having arrested the criminals. “The culprits have still not been imprisoned, although the police know them. They are still taking their time to make sure that this person gets away from justice. “We want justice for her and we want to make sure that those evil perpetrators are put behind bars,” he said. According to the family, the victim was taken to a shack in the area and raped throughout the night. The brother said the suspects were known to the community. The brother had previously told the Pretoria News the police did not seem to want to open a case. He said the family went to the police station to report the incident the day she had been found, but were turned away, with the police saying they wanted the victim, who was in hospital, to report the case in person. Mamelodi West police station spokesperson Captain Johannes Maheso received the memorandum. “What I can say is that the case is at an advanced stage, and the relevant authorities will communicate the outcome,” he told them.