The programme also includes efforts to expose the local and thousands of other young South Africans vital lessons in entrepreneurship using Ster-Kinekor cinemas around the country. Themed “Think Tech. Do Business”, the programme encourages learners to embrace technology as a platform for small business creation. Primestars manager Nkosi Moshoana said that when the company was started, one of the goals was to reach as many high school pupils and offer extra maths and science tutoring classes as possible - a goal they have since reached over the years. In the 10 years of existence, Primestars has developed programmes for high school learners from disadvantaged communities, and they use cinemas nationally as educational theatres of learning. He said the programme started on July 29 and will run until September 16: “In that time we will be providing 470 pupils in schools around Pretoria with 10 maths and science revision sessions at Kolonnade Shopping Centre Ster-Kinekor.” The sessions are held on Sunday mornings. They will also enjoy a custom produced educational movie iKusasa Lethu, about a young lady who discovers technology, designs a business and changes her future and the future of her community. Moshoana said the response from Pretoria pupils has been overwhelming. “We are currently over subscribed, with just over 15000 attendances around the country and 470 from Pretoria. So far the response has been quite exciting and we have plans to expand the programme. Over the years we saw an increase of 8.5% in maths attendance and a 6% in science, so we are calling on more corporates to help us make the dream of assisting these young people. “Primestars believes that given the right assistance from passionate individuals and organisations, our youth will be able to create and develop new businesses, which in turn will have a positive impact on the economy and reduce the rate of youth unemployment in South Africa. We need to help our young people realise that there are infinite possibilities available for them.” The programme is meant to expose youth early to the entrepreneurship attributes required to successfully venture into business, and they get a chance to start small enterprises and get to be exposed earlier to available support from the Small Enterprise Development Agency and other institutions. During the programme’s second phase, pupils will be given the opportunity to compete in an entrepreneurial competition by submitting their business model canvasses for assessment and adjudication by a panel of industry professionals and sponsors. During this process, at least nine top business models will be identified and the teams responsible will be invited to attend a boot camp in Joburg. The boot camp concludes with a prestigious gala dinner and awards ceremony.