Nearly 80 addicts had made the decision to kick the habit after activists and church leaders, led by Khutsi Malala, had embarked on a walk from Sandton to Mamelodi and Soshanguve, to highlight the scourge. Upon their arrival in Soshanguve, the participants met the addicts, who had gathered with their parents and were “demanding” they be sent to a rehabilitation facility. Transport was arranged and they were taken to the Dr Fabian and Florence Ribeiro Treatment Centre, where they were turned away for not following due process. Public Order police were called in to disperse the group. The department later explained that the police were called to disperse the crowd because the addicts had begun to act aggressively in their attempts to be admitted. Department spokesperson Mbangwa Xaba said forceful admission would have infringed upon strict admission protocol that was designed to properly manage rehabilitation centres and protect addicts who were in recovery. Xaba added that he was proud to announce that social workers and activists had worked tirelessly to find 38 of the 39 addicts who had left their contact details at the centre, before they were turned away on July 28. “I am very proud to say that these young people were traced to various areas in Soshanguve and Mamelodi and are being assisted. They are being placed in various rehabilitation centres, where their families can visit them. “I think it is important to highlight that, from day one, the department has always been keen to assist. Unfortunately, rehabilitation is a delicate process and needs to be done within strict protocol for it to be fruitful.” Xaba said social workers had spent the past two weeks verifying the information provided by the addicts and establishing if they would have support structures when they began their recovery programme. He added that protocol was important, because it enabled social workers to identify or build from scratch a family support structure for every addict. “It would be foolish if we rehabilitated someone without ensuring that there would be family support when he or she completed the programme," he said. “Remember, some of these people have fought or stolen from their families and relatives. We therefore need to mend those relationships because the addicts could be demotivated if they completed the programme, only to be rejected and chased away when they went back home,” he said. Xaba added that people who abused substances were encouraged to use the department’s rehabilitation centres, but they should obey protocol. Malala, organiser of the long anti-nyaope walk, said he was proud of all of the efforts undertaken by the department to assist youngsters in need. Activists were still looking for other willing addicts at Mabopane station, he said. “Some of the addicts who we are looking for did not leave their names and contact details at the rehabilitation centre and the department is thus not aware of them,” he said.