Students, clad in their respective political movement regalia, flocked to the Gencor Hall inside Soshanguve South Campus to reminisce about the life and times of their colleague. His family could not attend as they were preparing for the funeral, to be held in Bushbuckridge tomorrow. The hall was packed to the brim and abuzz with song and ululation. Members of the Pan Africanist Student Movement of Azania, South African Students Congress and EFF Student Command chanted Struggle songs, causing the hall to vibrate. One of the burning issues for the students was the need for accountability for the shooting. They demanded that the person responsible for Monareng’s death, who they claim was a police officer, receive the highest punishment possible. University management has promised to “leave no stone unturned” in investigating Monareng’s death, but yesterday students said they felt they had been left in the dark. Monareng, a third-level paralegal student, was allegedly shot by a police officer following a protest against a perceived “rigged” SRC election outside Soshanguve North Campus last Thursday. TUT and the Independent Police Investigative Directorate have initiated a forensic investigation. Students were still divided on whether the institution would deliver answers, and various student movements took to the podium to express their condolences. They also slammed the university and police. SRC president Katlego Makyobola said: “We are here because management employed an incompetent company to run our elections.” EFF student command representative Rendani Nematswerani said Monareng’s death “was caused by reckless management by TUT”. He added that he wanted TUT management to make good on their promises, one of which was to write to the National Student Financial Aid Scheme that students living outside of campus receive living allowances. Boima Kiko, of the South African Students Congress, said students would not rest until the case was resolved. He said they had given the police ministry five days to respond to their memorandum, handed over to the Deputy Police Minister Bongani Mkongi on Wednesday. PAC leader Narius Moloto delivered an emotional speech for Monareng, who was a member of the organisation. “A comrade who was invested in education and well on his way to contributing to the well-being of this country was gunned down by people who are suppose to protect us,” he told the hall. Vice-chancellor Lourens van Staden said all stakeholders were involved in the investigation, and Grant Thornton had been employed to investigate the SRC elections. “The investigation will be solid,” Van Staden said, adding that it would be concluded in three weeks. Students did not take kindly to those remarks and at times hurled insults and shouted at him.