Despite the City of Tshwane's assurance that its wi-fi operation was restored in various hotpots following last month's glitches, some residents complained that they still experienced erratic wi-fi service. On Monday, Gumani Razwinani of Mamelodi said nothing had changed despite the municipality's assurance that the wifi service was not cancelled. He said the last time he could access free wi-fi from a hotspot near the library in Mamelodi West was two months ago. Razwinani said: "I have been trying to connect to the wi-fi even at the library, which is down the street. I have been struggling to use Tshwane free wi-fi for two months. It is tricky to connect and it takes forever. This is affecting us because as youth we need the information for school assignments and work opportunities." Another wi-fi user Daniel Gumbi said the absence of wi-fi service had affected his chances of getting a job. "I relied on the free wi-fi to apply for jobs online. I use to walk to the library almost every day to log on to the internet and apply for jobs. Nowadays, I am unable to do that because we have a problem with the wi-fi signal," he said. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  Wi-fi glitches were reported two weeks ago in most areas across the city after the previous service provider Project Isizwe announced the expiry of its contract with the city in June. In the wake of the news, the City assured residents that wi-fi was not suspended, but it apologised for glitches experienced by some users. Last week, the City announced a three-year contract with a new service provider called Ulwembu Business Services (Pty) Ltd. City spokesperson Lindela Mashigo said the contract came into effect on August 1 and it quashed rumours that the DA-led administration intended to cancel the wi-fi project. Mashigo said: “This appointment disproves mischievous rumours that have been doing the rounds that the City has canned its free wi-fi project after our contract with the previous service provider - Project Isizwe – ended at the end of June.” He said the newly-appointed service provider had already started with the assessment of the current network and assets. The intention of the assessment was to provide an intensive implementation and maintenance plan, he said. “The teams from both the City and the appointed service provider have begun the process of assessing the network operation centre infrastructure, high sites and hotspots to address some operational challenges for a smooth transition,” he said. Mashigo said the city deemed the provision of wi-fi as a basic service, which explained why it quickly finalised the appointment of a new service provider within a month after the expiry of Isize’s contract. He also announced plans to re-launch the new free wi-fi, also known as TshWi-Fi that would take place on September 3. He said prior to the relaunch the City would first address issues related to setting up a call centre, new portal, daily data cap review per device, new look on social media platform and new logo. Regarding the erratic services, he said: “During this transition period, any service concerns related to the free wi-fi can be sent to Support-FreeWiFi@tshwane.gov.za.”