During the recent senior men’s provincial tournament the Tuks sportsman received the player of the tournament award, as well as the defender of the tournament award. He has also been included in the South African squad of 25 players from which the team for the World Cup will be chosen. Guy Elliott, the UP-Tuks men’s coach, thinks Cass might be the youngest player to receive the top accolades at a senior tournament. “I must say I am not really surprised. I have been following Jared’s progress from when he started playing men’s hockey in Durban while he was still at school. He is exceptional. “He understands the game and can anticipate what is going to happen, which enables him to be proactive. “The reason I enjoy coaching Jared is the way he continually questions why he is doing certain things. He is never just going to do what he is told because it is important to him to have a better understanding of the game. Naturally, it helps that his primary skills are excellent. “I have no doubt he is destined to become one of South Africa’s top players if he can keep his feet on the ground, which I am sure he will as he is a humble guy.” As a youngster, Cass participated in quite a few sports, but he fell in love with hockey the first moment he got a hockey stick to the ball. “I can’t explain it. I just love the game. I guess I am naturally inclined to team sports as it is never just about an individual. “There is no bigger award than when a team succeeds,” he said. As to his chances of making the South African team, Cass said: “I am going to follow my coach’s advice and not allow myself to feel pressured. I will just do what I always do, and that is to play to the best of my ability.” The 22-year-old Peabo Lembethe is the other Tuks player who is in the South African squad of 25 players, and he considers it a tremendous honour. “To play for the South African senior team has been my goal for a long time; now I am at least one step closer to realising my dream. The hard work is finally paying dividends.” Elliott said he was glad the selectors had taken note of Lembethe’s work rate. “As a midfielder, he has all the attributes to be the best. He is an undercover ‘workhorse’.” - African News Agency (ANA)