Education MEC Panyaza Lesufi this week published amendments to regulations relating to the Admission of Learners to Public Schools. If passed, they will effect wholesale changes to the existing policy. Should the newly elected ANC provincial deputy chairperson have his way, public schools in the province will no longer unfairly discriminate against pupils on the basis of race, language, ethnicity, origin, culture, colour, age, religion, conscience, belief, sexual orientation, HIV status or any other illness. "A learner may not be refused admission because the parent is unable to pay or has not paid school fees or a deposit determined by the school governing body (SGB), does not subscribe to the mission statement and code of conduct of the school, or has refused to enter into a contract in terms of which the parent waives any claim for damages arising out of the education of the learner,” read Lesufi’s proposed amendments to the regulations. Public schools will also be barred from demanding confidential reports on parents’ financial status to determine whether they can afford school fees as well as their employment details or information relating to pupils’ health, misconduct or behaviour that may be used to unfairly discriminate against them (pupils). Joe Mpisi, chairperson of the legislature’s portfolio committee on education, said they would meet Lesufi next week, and the proposals were part of transforming education in the province. "If we do not push for certain things, they won’t happen,” he said. Mpisi cited single-medium Afrikaans secondary school Hoërskool Overvaal in Vereeniging. There were ugly scenes earlier this year when the school refused to admit 55 English-medium Grade 8 pupils and took the matter to the Gauteng High Court, Pretoria. In January, Judge Bill Prinsloo set aside the Sedibeng East district office’s decision to place additional pupils for enrolment at the school. Mpisi said “particular people” do not want other races in public schools they control through school governing bodies. "There must be no discrimination in schools in Gauteng,” he warned. There was a need to tighten the regulations, Mpisi said. Independent and private schools were also refusing to take pupils from poor households living within the 5km radius set out by the department, even when the government offered to pay, he said. "We can’t deny a child education because his or her parents can’t afford to pay. It’s not the problem of learners that their parents are unemployed,” Mpisi said. Gauteng legislature DA member Khume Ramulifho said Lesufi’s plan could afford parents broader choices when it came to their children’s schools. There was a challenge of schools using pricing to prevent access, he said. Ramulifho said while school fees are used to employ additional teachers through steep fees, defaulting parents end up unable to enrol their younger children at the schools. Lesufi’s proposals on ending language discrimination would depend on practicality and capacity to accommodate pupils, he said. Schools that specialise in certain languages could be the solution as these could help improve mother-tongue education and the learning of indigenous languages, he added. "We must redesign schools based on current dynamics. Schools were designed to enforce apartheid." Ramulifho encouraged parents to participate in the process initiated by Lesufi and appealed to the provincial government to ensure it consulted widely. Lesufi has given parents and other stakeholders 30 days to submit written representations on his proposals. The National Association of School Governing Bodies' general secretary, Matakanye Matakanye, said language should not be used to exclude children from attending schools of their parents’ choice. "You can’t use language to discriminate. Once you use language, it means that school belongs to the past,” he said. Using pupils’ disciplinary records for admission was unfair on those who were still of compulsory school-going age. "Schools have a right to expel a learner but if they are still of compulsory school-going age the department has a right to find that learner."