The Gauteng High Court, Pretoria, has set aside November 6 and 7 for the matter. The DA confirmed this date yesterday, which was decided on after a meeting with the office of Pretoria Deputy Judge President Aubrey Ledwaba. The DA filed papers in March asking that the agreement be reviewed and declared invalid. The DA’s James Self said that the State had already spent at least R16.3 million on Zuma's legal costs. “This figure is likely to be significantly higher as this amount is confined only to the litigation involving the DA,” Self said. The DA will ask that the R16.3m already spent be refunded to the State. It is of the opinion that Zuma should not receive any more financial support from the public coffers. Zuma is vigorously opposing the application. In the latest papers filed in response to the allegations by the DA, Zuma, through his new lawyer, Lugisani Mantsha, said the application should be dismissed. The two days of argument in November will centre around the question of whether Zuma is entitled to legal assistance by the State regarding his fraud and corruption trial which was provisionally postponed to November 30 in the Pietermaritzburg High Court. Meanwhile, in the latest court papers, Mantsha said: “This application is underpinned by a rather mistaken contention that the criminal case against Mr Zuma has nothing to do with his role as a public official one just has to read the charges (against Zuma) to notice that this contention is false and self serving.” Mantsha said if one looked at the history of the case it was clear that his capacity as a public figure was the centre of the case against him. He said the State was thus liable to pay his legal fees. “Even the charges against Mr (Shabir) Shaik related to the relationship between him and Mr Zuma in his capacity as a member of government.” Mantsha said the charges against Zuma centred around his official powers and duties. “The applicant (DA) incorrectly contends that the charges against Mr Zuma are personal and unrelated to his official duties and that he is thus not entitled to State funding.” Mantsha said one only had to look at the indictment to see that the allegations were that Zuma abused his official powers for the benefit of Shaik and others. “The applicant seems to be blind sighted by its own antipathy towards him and as a result fails to see the obvious.” He stated that most of the litigation in which Zuma was involved against the National Prosecuting Authority related to the criminal charges against him. “The applicants complain that in these proceedings and others, Mr Zuma should not challenge decisions against him, regardless of whether they lawful or not. Mr Zuma should just ‘accept the punches’, as it were.” Mantsha said this application was simply “part of a political stratagem” by the DA aimed to frustrate Zuma’s rights to a fair trial. He said the decision to provide funding for Zuma's legal costs was in line with the general practice of the State to cover the legal costs of employees who face charges for offences allegedly committed during the scope of their office. In this instance, Mantsha said Dr Wouter Basson was a good example. The State paid his legal fees in connection with the charges he faced during his time as head of the country's chemical and biological warfare programme. He said the court could not punish Zuma simply because he was exercising his constitutional right by wanting funding and thus a fair trial. Mantsha said Zuma in any event agreed to pay back any costs incurred by his defence if he was convicted.