A new online driving licence pre-booking service to reduce long queues and eliminate corruption has been launched at the Centurion Licensing Department. The National Traffic Information System (eNatis) service by the Department of Transport in partnership with the Road Traffic Management Corporation (RTMC) was hailed as a step in the right direction towards the modernisation of the public service. MEC for Roads and Transport, Ismail Vadi said they had been in talks with the RTMC about the project for some time and he was happy to finally be launching the service. He said the service will enable ordinary citizens to make their pre-bookings for a driving licence, driving licence card renewal, licence test and public driving permit. “This fits in comfortably with the overall transformation, modernisation and re-industrialisation agenda of the provincial government and demonstrates our commitment to modernising the way in which we deliver services to our people,” he said. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  Vadi added that the system will enhance customer experience, reduce the need to queue for long hours and will improve service levels at testing centres. Singing the same sentiments was the Transport Minister, Dr Blade Nzimande who said people would no longer have to spend an entire day in queues for a service that takes 10 to 15 minutes. “We hope this system will shorten the queues and people’s time where they don’t have to take a day off work in order to come and queue here. "We also hope this will work towards eliminating corruption. It is known that people pay others to queue for them, while others pay bribes from the security gate to the desk itself and it happens in many places, but we hope that with online you get to be your own master without having to pay a bribe,” he said. The eNatis system is currently available in Gauteng licensing stations and aimed to be rolled out to other provinces soon.