Do you want a serviced stand or will you wait for an RDP house? This was the question the Department of Human Settlements will ask as it starts rolling out serviced stands as part of the rapid land release programme. MEC Uhuru Moiloa said beneficiaries would sign binding contracts. If people failed to build houses within a prescribed period, the stands would be taken away from them and redistributed. “Unfortunately, if you say that you can build a house for yourself and you are not building, we are going to have to take that site and give it to someone who can build a house themselves,” Moiloa said. “It (also) means you must go back to the waiting list for the ordinary RDP houses. We are not building squatter camps, we are basically making it possible for people to stay within affluent areas,” he said. Moiloa said the programme was aimed at making service sites available to qualifying beneficiaries who will build houses for themselves, instead of waiting for the government to build them RDP houses. He said as of 2016, 1.2 million people were on the housing waiting list in Gauteng alone. “The government is never going to be able to build a house for everybody. Those who can build houses for themselves must be assisted to build houses for themselves and this rapid land release programme is exactly about that,” Moiloa said. This policy will allow those who can no longer bear to wait for RDP houses to get serviced stands and build houses for themselves. “The total number of serviced sites that will be secured after this process is 100000. We hope that by end of term next year, we should have delivered 100000 sites to those who qualify,” Moiloa said. The department started calling people to ask which option they opted for yesterday and is currently targeting 3500 beneficiaries. Moiloa said the majority of the people who would be at the top of the list were women. To qualify for a serviced stand, you must earn R3501. One needs to have their house plan approved by the municipality. “Beneficiaries also have to demonstrate within 12 months that you can indeed build a house for yourself,” Moiloa said. He said the serviced stands would have sewage systems, water and “hopefully” electricity. Moiloa said various stakeholders were party to the programme and it was all systems go. “We have agreed that where we build houses, it must reflect human settlements. It means education must move in, the police must move in, the Health Department must move in, transport with regards to taxis must move in. “The MEC responsible for transport and roads must make sure there are roads so that people must not start fighting over roads in areas which we are initiating and developing. “It is integrated planning which my department has initiated and I think that working that way we will make progress,” Moiloa said. He said there was “absolutely no room to justify anyone wanting to occupy land illegally”, adding that illegal land occupation was a result of “cheap politics”. “We will have no option but to ensure that law enforcement agencies do what they must do. “They must arrest those people because it it is a criminal offence to occupy any land without due regards to any processes."