Msimanga was formally endorsed by the DA’s federal executive at the weekend, beating seven other hopefuls, including national spokesperson Refiloe Nt’sekhe, MPL Makashule Gana and MP Ghaleb Cachalia. DA leader Mmusi Maimane labelled Msimanga an exceptional leader of the party. “Solly has been an incredible member of the DA for the past 14 years. He has worked his way up in the party and has consistently proved his commitment to DA values. He stands for the very things I fight for on a consistent basis,” Maimane said. “He's successfully engaged challenging political dynamics in the capital with relative stability and now the city is beginning to show change. He possesses the skills we need in Gauteng.” The ANC is facing a fierce electoral contest next year for the country’s economic heartland, Gauteng, with opposition parties pushing to dislodge the ruling party. In the 2016 local elections, the governing party was dislodged from two metros - Tshwane and Joburg - by a DA-led coalition. Msimanga said he was thrilled with the endorsement, as it put him in the driving seat of the change needed in the province. “The change we need is one that realises the potential of this great province in making sure that we have honest people leading this province. “The change that will stop corruption and that will create jobs and deliver better services to all. "The kind of change that has been delivered for all our people of the Midvaal and the kind of change that is beginning to be delivered for all the people of Johannesburg and Tshwane,” Msimanga said. He would use his experience in the capital city to his advantage, he said, as he kicks off his campaign with a "listening tour" throughout the province on Thursday. “I’m taking the experience that I am coming with from the capital city and realising that what we need to do at provincial level will be to assist our municipalities to work much better than they have been working,” he said. “I know broadly what the issues are in Tshwane. I will be going to other cities across Gauteng, listening to what the people want us to answer to. We will be working hard to ensure that we win the hearts and minds of the people,” Msimanga added. The party’s premier hopefuls have thrown their weight behind Msimanga, pledging to back him during his campaign, in a joint statement after the announcement. “We are honoured to have been selected as DA 2019 premier candidates. However, like any process there can only be one premier. Solly Msimanga has extensive experience in public office, and indeed in government, and there is no doubt that he is going to lead us to win Gauteng,” they said.