In terms of the law, a life sentence is the maximum penalty for human trafficking charges. This is exactly what the prosecution has called for in this case. One of the men’s victims, a former prostitute who cannot be identified in terms of an order of the Gauteng High Court, Pretoria, said she would be happy to see her former captors spend the rest of their lives in jail. The petite young women was one of two former prostitutes who testified against the men - brothers Obioma Benjamin Abba, 32, and Chinedu Justine Obasi, 38. They said that it was extremely difficult for the pair to break away from the life of drugs and prostitution, but after the arrest of the brothers, they said they wanted to turn their lives around. Both had been rehabilitated from drugs, and already had good jobs. But during the trial they were under the State’s witness protection plan for their own safety. They also could not face their pimps in court as they were too afraid. They testified about their dark lives on the streets via closed-circuit television from an adjacent room. One of the women, who was at court yesterday, is heavily pregnant, as she had found new love. She is expected to give birth in October, but she vowed to be back for sentencing on September 18. “Although it will be soon before my delivery, I want to get closure by witnessing the court speaking the last word,” she said. Defence lawyer, Heinrich Moldenhauer, asked Judge Ronel Tolmay to have mercy on his clients, as “this was not the worst kind of human trafficking”. He argued that if the court gave his clients a suspended sentence, they could be extradited to Nigeria as they were illegally in the country. Moldenhauer said it cost the taxpayer R133 000 a year to keep a prisoner in jail. “Why should the State pay for this? It will be unfair.” He argued that it was not the accused who had introduced the women to prostitution and drugs, as they were already in the profession and hooked on drugs. “I humbly ask you to give them a suspended sentence so they could be deported,” he told the judge. But prosecutor Alicia Roos said they deserved life behind bars, as they exploited the women’s vulnerabilities. They forced them to work and then took their money. They kept tabs on them at all times. Apart from allowing them to walk the streets at night, they were locked into the flat in Arcadia where they stayed. One of the woman testified that the only daylight she saw was through the window. Roos said they were often slapped and manhandled by their pimps. Roos said they had to serve their punishment in the country where they had committed the offence. She argued that if they were sent back to Nigeria, they could soon be back in South Africa. Judge Tolmay, in a well reasoned judgment which lasted nearly the entire day, in December said the actions of the brothers fitted exactly with the description of the offence as stated in the Human Trafficking Act. It was found that the brothers had exploited two vulnerable women to work for them as prostitutes.