Selepe said: “A total of 1282 persons and 406 vehicles were searched, 98 traffic fines issued and 43 taxis impounded.” Seven unroadworthy vehicles were confiscated and 10 vehicle licences suspended during the roadblocks, while 47 people were arrested for possession of drugs. Selepe said 15 second-hand goods dealers were visited and five fined heavily for non-compliance with the Second-Hand Goods Act. “We visited 12 liquor premises, of which five had to be shut down. We had to confiscate liquor and other unlicensed goods. All five owners were given fines for failure to comply with the Gauteng Liquor Act. “The Recording Industry of South Africa (Risa) issued two notices of non-compliance and deactivated one jukebox. Home Affairs officials arrested 40 undocumented persons. “Counterfeit clothing was also confiscated, while Independent Communications Authority of South Africa (Icasa) officials seized electronic equipment worth R185000.” The operation also helped police detectives trace 20 wanted suspects in the city. A foreign national initially arrested for being undocumented was later linked to another case. The operation came about after Premier David Makhura called on police to restore safety and security in the province. The Makhura-inspired heavy policing operation was to make criminals uncomfortable and win back the confidence of the citizens. It saw the SAPS joining forces with Gauteng Traffic Police, Tshwane Metro Police, Department of Home Affairs, Telkom, SA Revenue Service, Icasa and Risa. The law enforcement agencies went on to the streets to tackle drug dealings, piracy, illegal cellphones, unroadworthy vehicles, illegal immigrants, untaxed businesses, non-compliant second hand goods dealers and unlicensed liquor stores. Authorities raided businesses, notorious buildings and held roadblocks in the CBD and townships. Police Minister Bheki Cele said Operation Buya Mthetho would be carried out for a long time to tackle crimes in South Africa. He said Thursday helped the police to arrested people wanted for various crimes.