Management has placed signs outside or next to lifts on certain floors - warning people of the possible danger. The sign reads: “Notice to all occupants (patients/staff and visitors). Please note that although every action is being taken to ensure that the lifts/elevators are available at all times, it has been found that they have reached their end of life and are just getting kept going while the process of replacing them is being finalised. “The process will take a minimum of six months. Management can neither guarantee their safety nor their reliability.” The sign was discovered by Jack Bloom, DA provincial spokesperson for health, who highlighted their current state contravened the Occupational Health and Safety Act. Bloom said part of the problem was not with the hospital, but because of an inefficient Department of Infrastructure Development in the province. “The department is notoriously inefficient hence the hospital has been struggling with the issue of getting something as simple but vital as the lifts working properly.” Bloom said problematic lifts in a hospital as big as Steve Biko meant that doctors could not get patients to floors needed to conduct operations. But also that cancer patients, the elderly and sickly had no other option but to use the stairs, or risk their lives using the lifts. “What if sick patients get stuck in the lifts, what then? This is a really distressing situation, it is a pity the hospital has to wait and be at the mercy of another department to get it right. “What is happening in this hospital is not only unsafe but it is also illegal. Hospital managers should have some control over this.” Lucy Mthombeni, a patient visiting the hospital yesterday, said she had not taken notice of any warning regarding the lifts. Mthombeni - who came via ambulance after her four-year-old son broke his arm - said she would never have used the lifts if she knew she was placing her life at risk. Another patient said she had no clue her safety could not be guaranteed using the lifts. “I understand the lifts were not working, but as for me using them at my own risk, I had no idea. It’s not right they need to put up bigger notices of this so at least we can choose,” she said. The Department of Health referred all queries to hospital management, who had yet to comment by late yesterday.