Traffic came to halt as members of the People Against Petrol and Paraffin Price Increase marched in Durban yesterday. They handed a memorandum to eThekwini deputy mayor Fawzia Peer, to pass it to Ramaphosa. Leaders of the organisation said they had requested several political parties to be part of the protest, but only Black First Land First (BLF) and the lesser known National Peoples Ambassadors attended. “Other political parties ignored our invitation. Come next year's general elections they will come to ask you for a vote. Don't vote for them unless they tell you what they have done to pressure Ramaphosa to lower the petrol price,” said Bishop Bheki Ngcobo, the organisation's deputy chairperson. He said ever since Ramaphosa came to power the country had seen the petrol price increasing four times. “We have experienced a low turn up at our church services because congregants cannot afford to drive or commute due to the exorbitant petrol price,” said Bishop Sandile Ndlela. People Against Petrol and Paraffin Price Increase national convener and Durban businessman Visvin Reddy, who is an ANC member, called on the government to nationalise Sasol so that it would be able to decrease the petrol price. “In this country 55% of people are living in poverty. Every time the government increases prices, it takes away food from the mouths of the poor. Nationalise Sasol and decrease petrol to R8 per litre." Reddy has courted controversy in the past for his social media statements. In 2014, he stated on Facebook that Indians complaining about the ANC should go back to India, which got him suspended from the party, and last year, during anti-Zuma protests, he said he'd be selling sjamboks. Reddy said the fuel prices had caused hardship in many families and for employees. “Next year is the elections and I want every South African to ask any party that is asking for their vote ‘what have you done about the fuel prices in the country’. If they have not done anything don't vote for them,” said Reddy.