The family house, situated next to that of executive mayor Solly Msimanga, is still in ruins. The family of seven has since been living in their double-garage, divided into a kitchen, living room and sleeping area. Lizzy Kgosiemang said the state of the house was pretty much the same as it was after it burnt down; the only difference was that they had cleaned out the burnt fragments from inside the house. The night after the house burnt down, she said, the family spent the night at the Msimanga home, but moved into the garage the following day and had been staying there ever since. “We have been staying in the garage since we left the mayor’s house. We are doing okay. At least we still have a roof over our heads. We managed to get through the winter and we hope we can make it through the rainy season.” Kgosiemang said they appreciated the love and support they had received from the community of Capital Park. She said no words could express her gratitude. The community policing forum in the area had at the time set up a bank account for the family and pleaded to people to donate money. At the time, ward councillor Elma Nel said they needed at least R300000 to help them to get their house fixed. However, the goal was not achieved, and only R16000 was collected. “The money they gave us we used it for electricity connection which cost us R8400 and the rest we paid out to people who helped clean the burnt fractures and bought a few things that we needed,” she said. Although the family did not have the finances to rebuild the house as yet, they said they sent their plans for approval to the City. “My husband has been following up on the progress, but he was told the City would deal directly with the person who drew up the plan. We have not heard anything since,” Kgosiemang said. The house went up in flames after a gas stove exploded. Five people were inside the house at the time, including an 8-year-old and an 85-year-old. No one was injured except Kgosiemang, who sustained bruises on her nose and left cheek.