Steenberg, 54, was at the Gauteng High Court, Pretoria, yesterday when two of the alleged killers of his last wife, Riekie Steenberg, briefly appeared. She was shot dead on June 29, 2016, when several armed men stormed the smallholding. Steenberg was hit over the head with an unknown object. He was kicked and also shot at. The intruders hit him in the back, but he survived the ordeal. His first wife, Suna, was shot six years before at the same smallholding - on the morning of April 16, 2010. She later died in hospital. Following her death, the devastated Steenberg, who owned a business which erected lapas, moved from the smallholding as he could no longer handle being there. But he had to move back sometime later as the things on the smallholding deteriorated. Little did he know that this step would cost him another wife. Steenberg told the Pretoria News he had to basically give the smallholding away following Riekie’s death. While the killers of his first wife had not yet been brought to book, he yesterday came face to face with the alleged killers of his second wife. Dolfie Sambok, 46, and Karabo Semake, 25, are facing seven charges, including murder, attempted murder and robbery with aggravating circumstances. It is claimed that they, and another suspect still at large, broke into the house in the early hours of the morning. Steenberg woke up and when he walked out of the bedroom, he was attacked. His wife was shot during an altercation between her husband and the robbers. She died of a gunshot to the chest. The two accused were supposed to go on trial on Monday, but the case was enrolled to yesterday owing to problems in obtaining legal representation. The case is once again standing down until tomorrow as Judge Bert Bam was told only one advocate was appointed to represent both accused. Advocate Francois van As said Legal Aid South Africa was appointing a second advocate. Judge Bam urged that the case go to trial as a matter of urgency as it was now dragging on. Steenberg expressed his disappointment at the delay and said he wanted the alleged killers brought to book.