With South Africa chairing the region, 2018 is set to be a tense year and a busy one for President Cyril Ramaphosa as Zimbabwe, Mali and the Democratic Republic of Congo head to the polls in what is expected to be hotly-contested elections. Yesterday, SADC executive secretary Dr Stergomena Lawrence Tax told ministers from the 16 members states, who gathered in Pretoria for a ministerial council meeting, that SADC had so far been successful in introducing structures aimed at promoting peace and security in the region. “During the period under review, focus was placed on the facilitation and consolidation of mediation, conflict prevention and preventive diplomacy initiatives,” Lawrence Tax said, adding the SADC Standby Force deployed in November last year and a multidimensional contingent were able to restore political and security stability in Lesotho. International Relations and Co-operation Minister Lindiwe Sisulu also used the platform to remind her counterparts of the role Nelson Mandela played when the country joined SADC 20 years ago. She added that his vision at the time was that the the region should have the “highest possible degree of economic integration, consistent with socio-economic and political reality”. “Our objectives in SADC are informed by the common agenda which seeks to advance peace, stability and sustainable development in the region,” Sisulu said. She also highlighted that although the political and security situation in member countries remains stable, there are still challenges that need to be addressed. In August, former president Jacob Zuma chaired a meeting in which heads of government at the 37th SADC Ordinary Summit vowed to ensure rule of law and human rights are upheld, as stipulated in the 1992 SADC treaty. Since that summit, Zimbabwe has had a new president in Emmerson Mnangagwa following the resignation of Robert Mugabe. South Africa also followed suit with Zuma stepping down. In Mauritius, Ameenah Gurib-Fakim was also compelled to step down this past weekend over graft and corruption. But Sisulu and Lawrence Tax both indicated they were confident that the region would forge ahead with enforcing stringent political stability programmes. Meanwhile, Sisulu said industrialisation in the region is important in ensuring prosperity as well as developing sustainable communities. “It has to be achieved through strong partnership with the private sector. It is therefore clear that all SADC members should focus on the need to strengthen the region’s capabilities both inside and outside of government,” she said. Lawrence Tax, on the other hand, said the region has made significant strides in fulfilling some of the goals set out in its 2017/2018 plan. These, she said, include a feasibility study on regional manufacturing of medicines and health commodities. However, she warned that the agriculture sector and food security in the region were under immense threat due to drought and adverse climate conditions as well as the emergence and outbreak of the fall army worm in countries such as Namibia, Malawi, Mozambique, Tanzania, Zambia and Zimbabwe. “These developments emphasise the need to have a robust and resilient agriculture sector. “It is for this reason that our industrialisation agenda has proposed the development of value chains in, among others, agro-processing, supported by other mechanisms to complement climate household food security. “Our co-operation in this area remains critical,” she said. On health matters in the region, Lawrence Tax reminded ministers that since the Global Fund towards the Cross Border Wellness programme came to an end in December, more work beckoned for countries in combating HIV and Aids. She called on member states to take over the 32 sites established under the global fund project and prioritise them. The council of ministers meeting concludes today.