Dressed in their blue tutus, thigh-high stockings and ballet shoes, the girls made their entry into the examination room with broad smiles and upright postures. The exam was held at the Russian Ballet Academy of South Africa, at Doringkloof Mall, where the girls from disadvantaged backgrounds rendered three performances for judges, artistic director and choreographer of the Royal Moscow Ballet Theatre Anatoly Emelianov, and Natalia Odinokova, ballerina and ballet examiner. Performances included ballet basics, where they showed off their stretching skills, pata-pata dance with a fusion of ballet and a Russian ballet accompanied by a Russian song titled Mama. After the exam, the girls received certificates for participation and participant Vuyelwa Thakane could not contain her excitement. “Dancing makes me happy, and receiving the certificate is just out of this world,” the 11-year-old from Pinedene said. She said when she walked out to dance with her counterparts in front of the judges, she was nervous but as they danced she began to relax. Asked what her favourite performance was, she said: “I love and enjoy pata-pata. I love ballet and would love to travel overseas to dance just like our dance master Madame Slou,” she said. During the performances, the girls were led by the ballet master Madame Akimguereeva Slou. Speaking to the Pretoria News, Emelianov said it was good to see children interested in the Russian culture - ballet. “It was interesting to watch and the performance, where children performed and sang a Russian song titled 'Mama'; it was amazing to see them sing a Russian song so well,” he said. Emelianov said the country definitely had talent, however, there was a need to put more work into  the dancing. Learn to Fly founder Claire Gardiner said the initiative was aimed at taking disadvantaged girls off the streets and life's hardships. “South Africa is mainly focused on sports activities for boys but nothing for girls, so they are left out in the streets dong nothing, especially after school. But with this programme I want to show young girls that not only can you achieve through academics but also through arts and culture,” she said. All the girls in the programme are pupils at the Irene Middle School. Today, their judge Anatoly Emelianov will perform during the Royal Moscow Ballet at the South African State Theatre. The event is a tribute to the great Russian composer Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky.