Wessels tendered in his resignation late yesterday afternoon after allegations of financial mismanagement surfaced involving loans to the embattled Blue Bulls Company. The arm runs the professional teams at Loftus Versfeld, including the Super Rugby franchise, where the union is 50% shareholder. However, Wessels has pleaded innocent to the allegations, saying the decisions to alleviate the financial burdens of the Blue Bulls Company was a collective decision that included the very individuals who orchestrated his exit and the finance committee which approves all transactions from the union’s accounts. “I decided to step down, but to single me out as the scapegoat is unfair and vindictive. As soon as the shareholders’ agreement was signed in 1998 - long before I took office as president - it became the union’s responsibility to finance the company,” Wessels said to Netwerk24. “For as long as the union has a 50% share in the company, its management has to look after the company’s best interests. These decisions were not made by me alone, but collectively in the relevant management divisions.” Wessels, who serves as chairperson of the Blue Bulls Company board of directors as well, also chairs the company, Assupol, which is the biggest sponsor of the Blue Bulls Rugby Union. His exit could see its coffers run dry. “I can confirm that Gert Wessels has resigned from his position as president of the union. He did so this afternoon,” said the Blue Bulls Rugby Company chief executive officer Dr Eugene Hare. “He (Wessels) has also given me the undertaking that he will not withdraw his sponsorship of the union until the end of the year,” Hare added yesterday. But with the sponsorship coming to a conclusion at the end of the year, it is highly unlikely that Assupol will renew their partnership with the union, plunging them into financial distress. Wessels, who was voted into power at the end of 2014, was to finish his four-year tenure in November this year after a hostile takeover from then president Louis Nel with a motion of no confidence in his leadership having been tabled last week by dissident Carlton League clubs and the leadership at Limpopo Blue Bulls. According to Hare, Wessels's successor who will serve on an interim basis until the AGM at the end of the year, has to be appointed in the next two weeks as prescribed in their constitution and the special meeting will be convened by the 17-man committee of vice and deputy presidents of the rugby union. Blue Bulls Company chief executive officer Barend van Graan last year indicated to Independent Media that the books of the professional entity were sound.