The parents were dancing and celebrating yesterday after the first mobile classroom was delivered to the school. Freddy Mosese said they were happy that what they had been fighting for was at last being resolved. Mosese said in meetings with the  Department of Education, they had pleaded with them not to disappointment them again. Following the discussions and delivery of the classroom, parents gathered at the school and resolved their children would be at school today. The rest of the mobile classes will be delivered in the next few days. “We are giving them another chance, but if they fail us again we won’t be willing to talk. This time we’ll simply shut down their district offices so they can attend to this promptly,” he said. Mosese said although they were still sceptical for now, they would back down for as long as there was progress. The new classes will not be used until they have been properly set up and checked for safety by an inspector. Gauteng Education Department spokesperson Steve Mabona said they would deliver the remaining five mobile classes from a school in Rethabiseng, Bronkhorstspruit. He said the classes were taken from the school as it no longer required them. Mabona, however, said the department was determined to eradicate all mobile classrooms in the province. “Where you see mobile schools, we will build brick and mortar structures, or use alternative construction. We will be making sure all asbestos and mobile classrooms are done away with in the province." In fact, Mabona said, the department had already started with the process of replacing asbestos buildings in certain areas. Additionally, the department was ensuring that new schools were being opened every month. Mabona said although there had been criticism and complaints of new schools being built while some were being underutilised,  the department needed to make informed decisions in this regard. He said: “All areas where learner populations drop we can't just keep that school open. We need to make an informed decision and where there is a need or a backlog we have to build a school.” The department had already identified a need for schools within the Centurion, Fourways and Midrand corridors, Mabona said. And while the department had challenges in certain areas, Mabona was of the view that the situation was not a crisis. He said: “It can't be that when we have a challenge then you resort to disrupting us. "We feel short-changed as a department at being held at ransom through disruptions if we don't give in to demands.”