Even though hundreds of stakeholders marched in peace to hand over a petition to Sars headquarters in Brooklyn yesterday, they warned things would not remain peaceful should nothing be done, because they were tired of the failure to curb a growing illicit trade in the country. The march was spearheaded by the Food and Allied Workers Union, supported among others by the Lesedi Black Business Forum, Concerned Tshwane Liquor Traders, South African Spaza and Tuckshop Association and Barekeshi Ba Tshwane. In a memorandum addressed to Sars Commissioner Tom Moyane, the organisation said it was tired of having to watch the country battle with a loss of over R50billion due to the taxman’s inability to collect revenue and clamp down on tax evaders. They said had this matter been nipped in the bud earlier, honest, tax-paying South Africans would not have to face increases in VAT and fuel levies. Katishi Masemola, general secretary of the union, said it was unfair for law-abiding citizens and tax-compliant corporates and industry players to continue paying taxes while illicit traders were enjoying a free ride. “We believe that the treble-crisis of poverty, unemployment and inequality will not be resolved until Sars and the government intensify  their efforts to ensure compliance with the customs, excise and tax laws of this country,” he said. The memorandum alluded to another march to Parliament by stakeholders against inappropriate policies and laws on March 12. The march to Parliament will focus on the Health Promotions Levy, also referred to as the sugar tax, amendments to the tobacco and liquor laws, and for negotiations to be conducted with regards to the 2020 fishing rights policy. It will also call for the poultry and sugar industries to be defended against illegally dumped chicken and raw sugar from EU countries. “Over the past five years 5000 jobs have been lost, largely due to illegally dumped chicken from the EU. While on the other hand the continued illicit trade and manufacturing of tobacco has wiped out close to 1 000 jobs,” Masemola said. Moleko Phakgadi, deputy general secretary of the South African Federation of Trade Unions, said: “Next time we will not leave without clear, direct answers. The working class must come together and fight because small businesses and their communities are suffering the result of Sars’ inactiveness.” The revenue administrator was given 14 days to provide the organisations with a response on the action plan to deal with illicit trade. A stern warning was also issued to retail giants such as Woolworths, Spar, Pick & Pay and Shoprite-Checkers, for their part in misleading the public regarding the volumes of stock acquired abroad.