Advocate Pogiso Monchusi, who was to chair the panel with DA councillor Hans-Jurie Moolman and former DA MP Sheila Camerer, acceded to the request by De Lille's lawyers and recused himself during the five-hour meeting. The panel reserved yesterday to decide on whether the hearing should be open to the public. They could not discuss the matter as the panel was not fully constituted to be able to decide. De Lille said the process, which was meant to take four days, was draining and frustrating on her part. She insisted that she wanted to clear her name and conclude the process. “This is really a waste of time, and costly for me, because now I have to pay for my lawyers. We did not even get to the debate on the request to make this hearing public. We just feel like going straight to court because we don't know when the issue of having an open hearing will be agreed on. This is really, really frustrating,” said De Lille. DA federal executive chairperson James Selfe said Monchusi recused himself of his own volition, before arguments were made by De Lille’s lawyers. “This should in no way be construed as an admission of any wrongdoing on the part of Advocate Monchusi, as he made it clear that he was withdrawing solely to avoid any potential risk to the proceedings, subsequent to arguments being presented by Ms De Lille's legal representative with regard to a recusal application,” said Selfe. Selfe also stressed that the party had no problem with the hearing being open, but the decision would rest with the panel. “We accept that there are arguments both in favour of a closed session and an open session in view of the public interest in this case. In the end, that decision will have to be taken by the panel,” added Selfe. The panel will also still rule on whether Camerer, whom De Lille referred to as incompetent to chair the panel, will recuse herself. However, Selfe came to the defence of Camerer and said she was “both a properly and legally qualified practising attorney with many years of experience, and any suggestion that this is not the case is factually incorrect. A further argument in this regard is still to be presented by the party”. De Lille was placed on special leave last October and subsequently charged by her party. She survived a motion of no confidence which was meant to snatch the mayoral chain from her. The DA's subcommittee chaired by John Steenhuisen found that De Lille's leadership style was not in accordance with the party's principles of openness and tolerance. She was found to have contravened the federal constitution. The hearing has been postponed indefinitely to allow the party to find a third member of the panel.  