Little Blessing Lewele is said to have suffered severe injuries to the left side of his body, head and spine. His mother Sylvia Lewele, who lives in a small village in Limpopo, yesterday received the go-ahead from the Gauteng High Court, Pretoria, to proceed with her claim against the police. Her letter of demand to the police was issued outside the six-month time frame in which the incident occurred and the claim thus lapsed. But Lewele told the court that she was a layperson when it came to the law, and therefore did not know that she had to institute the claim within a specific time frame. Therefore she issued her claim 15 months late. She also did not have money at the time to consult a lawyer. The woman said it would not prejudice the police if she was nevertheless allowed to proceed with her court battle as the officer who was responsible for throwing her baby in the back of the van was still working at the police station. She explained in papers before court that the police came to the village where she lived on October 3, 2012, and arrested her on charges of assault and crimen injuria. She had Blessing with her at the time and asked the police to allow her to take the boy to her mother’s house, which was 500m down the road. According to her, the police refused, assaulted her and threw her in the back of the van. They then threw the baby in the van as well. Blessing fell on his left side and got severely injured. In spite of this, the police drove around with them for nearly the entire day in the back of the van, and in the sweltering heat, before they were taken to the police station. Lewele was later told to go home and she opened a criminal case against the constable whom she claimed assaulted her son. The mother will later submit medical reports to the court on the injuries her son suffered. She stated that there was no reason for the police to throw her son with force into the back of the van, as her mother lived nearby and could have taken care of the child. Lewele’s claim includes among others R3million for general damages for the arrest and humiliation suffered in front of her neighbours, R1.5m for medical expenses and R1m for “stress and discomfort”. No date has yet been set for the main hearing.