But few contributions to the public debate are informed by the available evidence. Poorly informed commentators often misrepresent the issues. Compounding this is a serious problem - the absence of reliable national data on the land issue. Land policy, at the centre of the storm, is flailing around in the dark. South Africa’s land policy is based on three main pillars: restitution, redistribution and tenure reform. Restitution involves people claiming back land taken from them after June 1913, or compensation for their loss. Land redistribution involves acquiring and transferring land from white farmers to black farmers, for a variety of purposes, including farming and settlement. Tenure reform aims to secure the land rights of those whose rights are insecure as a result of past discrimination. Land reform has been slow, with the government reporting that, so far, around 9% of commercial farmland has been transferred through restitution and redistribution. Tenure reform has been remarkably ineffective, with many poor people as insecure as they ever were. But, in reality, there is only the haziest of understandings of how well or how badly land reform is doing - and why. The woeful record-keeping of national and local government departments is partly to blame. But they are not the sole culprits. The last census of commercial farming in 2007 underestimates the true numbers of farm owners as it only reports on farms registered for VAT - currently those with a minimum turnover of R1million. And StatsSA agricultural reports don’t distinguish farms by size or value of output. Also, official survey data on smallholder farming is thin and even less useful. In general, the lack of accurate information on land reform and the rural economy allows much of the public debate to be misinformed and is a serious constraint on policy making. Nobody knows precisely how much agricultural land has been privately purchased by black farmers and how much has been acquired via land reform. Two national land audits were released in recent months, one by the agricultural lobby group AgriSA, the other by the government. Both are based on analysis of information derived from title deeds. AgriSA's 2017 land audit argues that the initial target of transferring 30% of agricultural land via land reform is close to being met - and that the market is much more effective at transferring land than the state. But the market is not redistributing land to black people to the extent AgriSA claims. Its methodology and most of its conclusions are fundamentally flawed. For example, much of the 4.3million hectares of land it says were acquired through private purchases by previously disadvantaged individuals includes transfers of land as a result of land reform. In these cases, the government has provided funds and served as an intermediary in the transaction. So they were not private transactions. The government’s latest land audit is also not particularly useful. It provides some evidence of continuing patterns of racial inequality in land ownership. But it can’t identify the racial, gender and national identity of the 320000 companies, trusts and community-based organisations that own 61% of all privately owned land. Neither of these audits can identify zones of need and opportunity for land reform. Information of this kind, crucial for well-planned redistribution, doesn’t exist. There is almost zero information on how many people have actually benefited from land reform, patterns of land use after transfer and levels of production and income. A few reports have been published, but they aren’t a substitute for systematic data collection. Similarly, case studies by academics can’t serve the wider purposes of guiding planning for land reform. In relation to deeds registry data, there are vast discrepancies between official records for black land owners, both rural and urban, and realities on the ground. In our 2017 book, Untitled. Securing land tenure in urban and rural South Africa (edited by Donna Hornby, Rosalie Kingwill, Lauren Royston, Ben Cousins), we estimate that close to 60% of all South Africans hold land or housing outside the formal system and the deeds registry can tell us little or nothing about these realities. Official data, although inadequate, does allow common misrepresentations of land reform to be refuted. For example, one widely held view is that the great majority of land restitution claimants have chosen cash compensation rather than restoration of their land. This is nonsense. About 87% of land claims lodged by the cut-off date in 1998 were to urban properties and in most cases claimants were offered (and accepted) a standard cash settlement, because restoration was clearly impracticable. But most rural claims,  and most are group claims, have opted for restoration. Another misconception is that land reform can involve the redistribution of state-owned land. The reality is that most state land in rural areas comprises densely settled communal land - obviously not available for redistribution. The recent government land audit confirms this and shows that state land comprises only 18% of the total. But in urban areas, state-owned land can be used for low-cost housing if it is appropriately close to economic opportunities. The single most misleading “fact” endlessly repeated is former minister Gugile Nkwinti's assertion that 90% of land reform projects have failed. This has no foundation in any research evidence - a fact he later admitted. Empirical evidence suggests that about 50% of the projects have improved the livelihoods of beneficiaries to a degree. This is not to say that these projects have been highly productive. The real potential of rural land reform and agricultural development, as well as urban land reform, to reduce poverty and inequality has not been realised to date. How to acquire and transfer land, the focus of much current debate, is the least difficult aspect of land reform. It simply requires increasing the tiny budget and paying just and equitable compensation in line with the constitution. Larger challenges involve targeting beneficiaries, identifying well-located land, ensuring that water is reallocated along with land and enabling small-scale economic activity in rural and urban spaces. New legislation securing the rights of people in social tenures found in communal areas, farm dweller communities and informal settlements is also urgent. Much of the current commentary on land policy is ill-informed and fails to identify these challenges. The lack of robust official data on land and agriculture is a key problem that should be high on the new president's agenda - The Conversation Professor Ben Cousins is the director of the Poverty, Land and Agrarian Studies (Plaas) at the University of the Western Cape