They have allowed themselves to get entangled in the tragic love story unfolding in the Mzansi Magic drama series every night. Kea, played by Dineo Moeketsi, has had two failed marriages since the soapie started and has now finally found herself “Mr Right” in Tebogo, played by Fezile Makhanya. Tebogo is a successful and handsome man, and when he made his first appearance he had both Kea and the viewers smitten by his charm. But the love for Tebogo was soon lost when he started to show his abusive side and his obsession with power. At first, viewers were alarmed when an ex-girlfriend started calling Kea to warn her about her new lover. It was not long after the warning from the ex-girlfriend that Tebogo manhandled her for paying their food bill at a restaurant saying that they were not equals and it was his duty as a man to provide and take care of his woman. It was then that viewers took to Twitter to warn Kea to run as fast as she could. @Tumi_August wrote: “This guy is going to ruin Kea, doesn’t she have Twitter we’re trying to warn her lana.” Meanwhile @Ntsweleng wrote she only had one piece of advice for Kea, which was to run as fast as she could as Tebogo was bad news. After the manhandling incident, Kea had doubts about her relationship with Tebogo, but her family was already eating out of the palm of his hand; and in their eyes he was a perfect man to take care of their “princess”. He has money, brings business into the family’s already successful business and has undying love for the only girl in the family. But little does the family know they sold their daughter “to the devil himself”, as Twitter puts it. After paying R150 000 lobola last week Tebogo started to reveal his true colours when he slapped Kea the very first time he spent the night at the Khoza home. He then turned and apologised saying he needed to be fixed as he was a broken man. And that was when all hell broke loose on Twitter: @MmapulaSedie included capital letters for emphasis: “It is not our duty to fix black men because they are “broken” V***rtsek, we are all broke.” @iviweyengwa said women were not rehabilitation centres for badly raised boys and Kea needed to wake up. It was not long before tweeps said a lot of women could relate to what Kea was going through. “Sadly, somewhere out there there’s a Kea watching and she won’t leave her Tebogo,” @Meek_Rhapsody wrote. Supporting that was @tsekano who said Kea made a mistake that a lot of women made “He will change; I’ll help him change..” honey!!! No! You gonna die!” @MorongwaMothiba said everything had levels and abuse too had levels: “Level 1. Slap, 2. Punch 3. Avbob (death)”. While Kea deals with the aftermath of Tebogo’s slap in a rather surprising way, Tebogo solidifies his relationship with his in-laws with a strong business opportunity that would only make the family richer. Also drawn into the debate was Rami Chuene, an actress on the soapie known as The Gracious One “T-Gom” wo took to Twitter and said the pressure from family always failed the victims of abuse.