Msimanga launched the Tshwane Open golf tournament, announced the ban on smoking in municipal facilities and had time to slot in the exit function for veteran DA councillor Rita Aucamp. This was in addition to numerous other activities a mayor of the world’s third largest metro would have on his daily diary. On the political front, his name was also thrown in the hat for the positions of DA federal chairperson - currently held by Nelson Mandela Bay Mayor Athol Trollip - or deputy party chair. But just as during the spring of 2017, Msimanga’s job was not on the line because of his own failures. To be fair to him, he has run a pretty clean administration in a rather hostile political environment since he took over the highest office in the metro in 2016. The fact that he is in line for a higher position within his party speaks volumes of his performance as the capital's mayor, but that is a subject for another day. See, last week the EFF and ANC in Parliament historically teamed up to pass a motion to expropriate land without compensation. The DA voted against the motion, which had been tabled by EFF leader Julius Malema. The motion was in line with one of the cornerstones under which the EFF was formed. Without land expropriation without compensation, the EFF would have failed the millions who voted for it on its election debut. Malema was livid after the DA rejected the motion. Land expropriation without compensation is a matter of life and death to the EFF and its supporters. Mind you, Msimanga, Trollip and their DA comrade in Joburg Herman Mashaba became mayors with support from the EFF. Malema and the “fighters” declared the DA the better devil than the ANC and voted with it after the 2016 polls, where no party won an outright majority - 51% - in the three metros. Such was the influence of the EFF that when it boycotted the council on two occasions with unexplained reasons, Msimanga’s DA-led multiparty government could not get proceedings going in the House. So, after the parliamentary vote, Malema took to social media and posted a statement that would have left the DA mayors shivering. He wrote: “You vote against land expropriation without compensation and expect a black man to keep you in power. Never; you can go to hell” He went on to explain that the EFF would bring a motion of no confidence against Trollip next month to punish the DA. However, Juju was not done; he will only return the metro to the ANC if former finance deputy minister Mcebisi Jonas is mayoral candidate, otherwise the EFF will abstain from voting. The ANC has yet to respond. But it turned out the EFF will not take similar action against Msimanga and Mashaba, which will no doubt have brought some relief to the two leaders. The DA later described Malema’s utterances as hate speech and said “the fact is that the EFF is willing to sacrifice service delivery to the people of Nelson Mandela Bay and hand over power to the same ineffective and corrupt ANC that the people voted out we will not be held to ransom by the EFF’s attempt to get back into bed with the ANC”. Trollip is on record as saying he is concerned about the motion against him, but the DA will not be blackmailed by Malema nor forced to vote in favour of a motion if does not agree with. As matters stand, the drama can be summarised as follows: Trollip will be voted out and the metro handed back to ANC - but only if the mayoral candidate is Jonas. Unlike last year after the coalitions were under threat after Trollip axed his deputy, the UDM’s Mongameli Bobani, Msimanga and Mashaba are safe, Malema said, as the EFF will not be tabling motions against them. The same scenario had played itself out after Western Cape Premier Helen Zille’s now infamous colonialism tweet, for which the DA forced her to apologise and the EFF accepted the apology - and thus the governments of the three metros were saved from possible collapse. Coalition governments are sensitive, but still considered the future of South Africa should the ANC fail to win an outright majority in the 2019 polls. And it does not get easier with the EFF in the neutral corner pulling the strings. Trollip could be out of a job next month, while Msimanga and Mashaba remain mayors until the EFF says otherwise, it seems, or the local government elections in 2021. Such is the nature of South Africa’s democracy; the democracy in which you never know who will be president or minister when you wake up the following morning. Mudzuli is Pretoria News assistant editor. He writes in a personal capacity.