Makhura addressed residents during a public meeting in a packed community hall. He said the provincial government had received tip-offs that some houses were sold to foreigners. “Houses which were built for free for the people were sold. The Hawks are going to look into corruption in the project and housing allocation. There are people who are selling stands here in Olievenhoutbosch. “Some of those who had been sold stands have evidence and want to spill the beans as to who sold them the stands,” Makhura said. In the past there had been enough talk about corruption, he said. It was time to drastically act against those who were implicated in the wrongdoing. Illegal land occupation would not be tolerated under the leadership of President Cyril Ramaphosa, he said. “I don't want to hear that there were people who had allocated themselves land. I want us to give you the land properly,” he said. There was a group of people who illegally invaded the RDP houses in Extension 27 in 
December. Makhura said he was aware of the situation and would soon dispatch a team of officials from Human Settlements Department -accompanied by the police - to houses which were occupied in December illegally. The purpose would be to verify if the occupants of those houses were the rightful beneficiaries. “We want to check if they originally formed part of the housing list managed by the government,” he said. The officials and the police must be able to determine the number of people who had illegally occupied those houses. “They must also be able to say how many had been arrested,” he said. The department said on Monday that it had obtained an interdict against further invasion of houses in the area and was also going to evict the illegal occupiers. “It seems there is a group making concerted efforts to bring anarchy to the community of Olievenhoutbosch. We call on the community not to be misled by opportunists,” it said in a 
statement. Makhura said the government had plans to build 4 500 houses In Extension 27, but only 1 000 houses had been completed. He visited the area in the wake of the illegal land invasion which took place in the area at the weekend. There were allegations that some people bought pieces of land for R100 from community leaders. EFF chairperson in the area Peter Seolela said he was behind the seizure of land, but denied allegations that plots of land in the area were up for sale. He said those who invaded the land were backyard dwellers who weeded out tall grass with spades and machetes on the privately-owned land along R55 road. “The stands are for free. No one must buy land. Even a R1 is too expensive to buy the land. We had other people coming from as far as Tembisa, who said that somebody from Tembisa promised them stands here for R800. We said the stands are for free. People don't have anything because their money had been spent on paying rents,” Seolela said.