As a result, the orthopaedics implants Khumalo has lived with for five years will only be removed in May. Last week the Pretoria News reported that the 57-year-old man who sleeps on the corner of Pagel and Earl streets in Pretoria North had been living with the implants for more than five years. He was involved in a car accident in 2012. He accused Dr George Mukhari and Steve Biko academic hospitals of turning him away without medical attention. He said because he was homeless, they gave “excuses such as the beds are fully booked”. Yesterday, Steve Biko spokesperson Lovey Mogapi said Khumalo was fully informed about the plan and his appointment date. “Kindly be informed that the hospital is planning to operate  on Mr Khumalo on May 16. He was well informed of this before February 18. “He is unfortunately competing for resources with other urgent and acute cases. He has a chronic condition and will be treated as elective. Mr Khumalo is fully informed of this plan and his appointment date,” she said. Khumalo claimed he was being denied medical attention because he was homeless. “I was hit by a car in 2012 and they put metal screws and pins in my arm and knees,” he said last week. “I’ve had them since then and they need to be removed, but they keep sending me away, giving me new dates. “Here in my knee where they put a bandage, the pins are starting to show and it is so painful. I can’t even walk properly anymore,” he said. “I had been going to George Mukhari for the whole of 2017, but they kept giving me different dates. All they give me is pain killers and send me back to the streets, and they don’t even kill the pain.” He alleged that after going to George Mukhari and not getting help, he turned to Steve Biko last year, only to experience the same problem. George Mukhari’s chief executive Dr Freddy Kgongwana said they were aware of Khumalo’s case, but denied turning him away. He said they had made attempts to try to help him, but he would disappear even after he was admitted. Mogapi insisted Khumalo’s problem was not life-threatening and that he was competing for resources with other patients. It had nothing to do with his status as a homeless person, he added.