These words are fitting as our country continues to engage in the welcome debate on the expropriation of land without compensation. Madiba knew all too well the importance that the question of land played in our Struggle for liberation, the economic emancipation of our people and the realisation of the national democratic society based on national reconciliation. The ANC has trodden carefully in addressing this issue because it understands how delicate it is. Despite the national imperatives and the urgency by which poverty and inequality must be addressed through the allocation of land, we will not rush into this important matter, nor be populist about it. The ANC remains emphatic on land. Emerging from its 54th National Conference, and having evaluated and debated the matter, the organisation through its branches and as the broadest representation of South African society, resolved that the government must, as a matter of policy, pursue expropriation of land without compensation. Throughout recent days, we have heard various quarters suggest that there is ambivalence in the ANC on this issue and that the ANC continues to debate it. Yet this indication, that it is a matter of policy, emphasises why the ANC may be more emphatic than it has been before. Expropriation of land without compensation is ANC policy (and) the ANC voted in the National Assembly for the establishment of a Constitutional Review Committee of Parliament to review Section 25 of the constitution, which deals with land and expropriation. In fact, the ANC led the amendments to the motion proposed by the opposition. Just as with the ANC’s resolution at the national conference, so too the decision to set up a committee to review Section 25 will be conducted in manner that is not isolated from the factors raised earlier by Mandela. The review will therefore not take place in isolation of the imperatives of ensuring that the agricultural sector remains stable, food security is unaffected and economic growth and job creation is not threatened. The ANC is determined in guaranteeing that the review committee present a number of modalities for expropriation of land without compensation. President Cyril Ramaphosa, in his State of the Nation address, also echoed Mandela as well as the ANC resolution by accentuating the context in which the policy of expropriation of land without compensation must take place. It must increase rather than reduce agricultural production, he said. It must improve rather than threaten food security. As Madiba pointed out, the question of land is integral to the national project which is intertwined with the economic emancipation of our people. We cannot continue to promote reconciliation when we do not pursue justice. The reality is that the majority of South Africans remain without land. As with apartheid, all South Africans - black and white - suffer from the injustices of ownership of land and these injustices of the past must be addressed. The Land Audit Report: Phase 2 (2017), which deals with the scope of privately owned land, highlights that white South Africans continue to own 72% of privately owned land. Coloureds own 15%, Indians 5% and Africans 4%. In other words, whites own more than 18 times the amount of land that Africans do. To add insult to injury, the report indicates that 6% of the land ownership population owns 96% of the farmland in the country. Attempting to address the question of land redress directly connects to farmland and therefore (it connects to) the agricultural sector and food security, because even in farming we have monopolistic tendencies which are racialised. The report states that nowhere in the country do whites own less than 53% of farms and agricultural holdings. The highest white ownership is in the Northern Cape, where 73% of agricultural holdings and farms are in white hands, while in Gauteng, whites own 59% of farming land. In terms of gender, we too still have a long way to go (as) males own 71% of farms used for agricultural purposes. Twenty-four years into democracy the gaps are staggering and, sadly, the ANC government has to admit that “willing-buyer, willing-seller” did not reap the results needed to foster reconciliation. The land audit must lead to direct discussions and debate on the expropriation of land without compensation. The audit will sketch a scientific scenario rather than the emotional and often provocative language used by those opposing land transformation. As we have seen, even the international media ensures that the narrative suggests South Africa will be “going the same way” as its northern neighbour. Land is a sensitive and emotive issue. Some opposition parties have a head-in-the-sand approach and use the old mantra of simply blaming the ANC without contributing to the debate, while others have taken a populist approach. The ANC will do neither. We will debate and approach the matter with caution - but we are resolute. Mandela, addressing a community in KwaZulu-Natal in 1998, in the presence of King Goodwill Zwelithini, remarked that “We knew land reform would not be an easy task or quickly achieved. 
In other countries it has taken decades, even centuries, and it is still not complete” In this year of celebrating Nelson Mandela, and as we debate the policy of expropriation of land without compensation, the ANC wishes to send a clear message to all South Africans, and even His Majesty, that we do take the question of land seriously and, like all serious matters, we will handle it sensitively. Jessie Duarte is the ANC deputy secretary-general.