O’Neil was on a quick promotional tour to South Africa in the run-up to the WWE Live South Africa tour next month. Last week, he climbed Table Mountain with pupils from Drakenstein Primary School as part of his Cape Town trip and hung out with Orlando Pirates football club in Joburg. He then visited the Union Buildings. “South Africa has been amazing to me because I enjoy the culture and the people have been eager to take pictures and help me where they could. I could see the excitement on their faces about the upcoming tour in April. “We have been here before, but we didn’t perform in Pretoria. This is a new opportunity to be in front of a different segment of South Africa,” he told the Pretoria News. But most importantly, when he comes back to South Africa, he wants to have direct contact with those who will not have the opportunity to see him in the ring; the underprivileged people. “We want to have an impact inside and outside of the ring. I want to visit a community centre here and be able to speak to the children to encourage them to follow their dreams, and work as hard as they can to get a good education,” he said. “I want to talk to them about bullying; that problem is not just here in South Africa but across the whole world. Other superstars also share the same message. “What we do on television is entertainment, but in real life there are people who have been bullied at one point or had dreams, goals or doors shut in their face.” The former footballer said during the tour, he wanted to see excitement on his fans’ faces. “Them bringing their families and friends is my number one goal. I want to put smiles on people's faces, hopefully I will do an awesome job on that.” O’Neil said he wanted to motivate children who admired him and watched him on television. He said he came from humble beginnings, a single-parent home; his mother had him when she was young. “I grew up poor, which is similar to the way these children grew up in townships and informal settlements and the thing that’s so easy to lose is hope, because you don’t have access to resources. “The message I would like to give to them is to never lose hope, always believe there is something out there much greater than your present situation, and you have to work towards that and hope and pray and continue to believe that you're able to do those things.” The WWE Live South Africa tour will be at the Time Square Sun Arena on April 20. But before that, the superstars will be on stage at the Grand Arena, GrandWest in Cape Town for two days. The tour concludes at the Ticketpro Dome, Joburg, on April 21.