The land claim could also result in the tribe taking charge of another piece of lucrative land on which Hartbeespoort Dam is located in the North West, on the north-western outskirts of Pretoria. In terms of the Restitution of Land Rights Act, a land claim is directed at the state and not individuals or companies. Possible settlement is restoration, alternative land, financial compensation or a combination. The tribe’s Paramount Chief Molato Kekana said his late father Zebediela Simon Kekana lodged the land claim on behalf of the community on December 12, 1995. Kekana spoke to the Pretoria News on Saturday during a meeting between the community and the Commission on Restitution of Land Rights at Giant Stadium in Soshanguve. The meeting was convened to allow the community to elect a land claim committee, which will replace Kekana’s late father as claimant. According to Kekana, the land claimed by the community stretched from Wallmansthal up to Hartbeespoort Dam. “It includes the Wonderboom area, where there is an airport. The main issue of the meeting is the nomination of the land claim committee. “The royal family sent me as an observer to ensure that the nomination goes well,” he said. Mkhacani wa Mkhacani of the Commission on Restitution of Land Rights told the community there was another claim lodged by the Amandebele Ba-Lebelo for the same land. He said the commission would convene a different meeting with the Amandebele Ba-Lebelo tribe. He said the claim by Amandebele a Moletlane had dragged on for years due to many challenges, which included a fight related to the person who must rightfully represent the community on the claim. “There were different groups that had alleged that you elected them as land claim committees,” he said. Wa Mkhacani assured the community that the commission was investigating their land claim as well. He said the claim process was also compounded by the fact that there was another group that claimed to represent both Amandebele tribes, Ba-Lebelo and Moletlane. “The group had brought up the matter to court,” he said. Regarding the purpose of the meeting, he said the elected land claim committee must liaise with the commission on behalf of the community. “The land committee must take instructions from the community. The community has more powers than the committee,” he said. Wa Mkhacani said the committee must hold regular meetings and update the community about the claim, including the date on which the land would be handed over. Lesiba Kekana, who proclaimed himself as the royal chairperson of the tribe, said long delays to the claim was due to infighting within the family. He said there were three royal family members, who had insisted on substituting the late Zebediela Kekana as the claimants. “The community decided that the substitute didn’t necessarily require one to be a member of a royal family,” he said. He said the land claim committee would work hand in 
hand with the municipality 
to ensure service delivery. “The royal family is uninterested in the matter because it continues to benefit from the government tender systems,” he said. According to him, at least 60% of the land in Tshwane was owned by the Amandebele a Moletlane. The paramount chief Kekana disputed claims that there were infightings within the royal family. “We have no outstanding disputes in the royal family. “We solved the dispute related to the chieftaincy in 2015 on July 30. “What we are still waiting for is the recognition from the Office of the Premier,” he said. His late father was inaugurated as the paramount chief in 1996 by the Kekana Royal Executive Council, but the decision was challenged in court by the Amandebele-Ba-Lebelo Traditional Authority. Ba-Lebelo lost the case.