This was the overall message given to Tshwane University of Technology students in the Entertainment Technology and Film Department, by industry giants who have been nominated for the South African Film and Television Awards (Saftas). The art practitioners this week paid the students a visit to shed some light on the industry as part of an engagement process leading up to the Safta awards. Among them was producer Takalani Mulaudzi, production design artist Dylan Lloyd, director Scottnes Smith and sound designer Thapelo Makhubo. Mulaudzi told the students that making tea could be figurative and literal. She told them to be humble if they wanted to penetrate the already tough media industry, also urging them to work hard to acquire a qualification. They should try not to make the mistake of thinking that was all they needed for success. “Most of us here started by making coffee in order to penetrate the industry. When anybody on set wanted coffee while we were producing, we offered to make the coffee, even with our qualifications.” She said they needed to think of it as more than just making coffee, but rather as a way to be noticed. “Making coffee sets you apart because no one ever forgets the coffee guy. You start to get noticed and that is when you go in for the kill.” Production artist Lloyd said getting ahead in their careers was not just about being successful: “ It’s about being noticed too. “So how do you stand out to be hired by potential employers? How do you stand out for a promotion? How do you stand out as loyal to the people you are leading? It's simple: do the things that others aren't willing to do, like coffee,” he said. Another predicament in the media industry was the age old quandary: “You need skills and experience to get a job, but until you get a job, you can’t get the experience,” Lloyd said. He encouraged students to get a solid and proper qualification, but said once they secured an internship or got an opportunity, they should work hard like they had no 
qualification. Then, he said, there’s always the gap between so-called "book learning" and the skills that they actually needed in the workplace. “What felt easy now creates problems down the line. And what feels hard now - doing the stuff you don’t  like - makes everything easier in the long-term.” Performing Arts and Technology student Matsimela Moggashane didn’t take the “coffee” concept well, asking the panellist why one would pay thousands of rand at university "only to make coffee”. “Imagine being asked how your day was at work by your parents who paid lots of money for tuition, and you say 'Oh I made  coffee',” she said. But Mulaudzi intervened again saying that the coffee making was just an entry point to bigger things to come. “Its a foot in the door to the garden of success,” she said. The CEO of the National Film and Video Foundation and Safta committee chairperson Zama Mkosi highlighted another challenge in the industry: patriarchy. According to her, the creative and cultural industries were rife with other well-known challenges, but an added burden for many women in the film and television industry was specifically the prevalence of a number of barriers to entry - some of which the National Film and Video Foundation was working hard to eliminate. “As we see it, the main gaps women in South Africa face in our industry centre around three key factors - funding, mentoring and training,” she said.