The former professional soccer player, who is now a TB and HIV/Aids activist, took off his shirt to show hundreds of people at the World TB Day commemoration in Durban the scars caused by the disease. He found out that he had the disease, which has been described as one of the worst killers, in 2010. Although he did not explain how he contracted the disease, Nhlanganiso said it had left his body with irreparable damage as he had lost his left lung. “I spent three full months in bed at the Inkosi Albert Luthuli Hospital unable to breathe. My breathing level was at 15%. “TB treatment normally takes six months, but it took me nine months because one of my lungs had collapsed and it had to be removed." The scar on his back was as a result of the doctors removing his damaged lung. He said the royal family had gone through agonising stress, with the king even being forced to only focus on taking care of him for three months. The king, Deputy President David Mabuza and Health Minister Aaron Motsoaledi were among the dignitaries at the event outside Inkosi Albert Luthuli Hospital. The former AmaZulu Football Club striker said for him to contract TB was a demonstration that the disease did not care about family status. “Whether you are from a royal family it does not matter when it comes to the disease. Even if you are a deputy president,” he said. Nhlanganiso said he had taken a decision to spend most of his time at hostels and informal settlements teaching people about TB. Mabuza said he had been touched by Nhlanganiso’s story, which demonstrated how the disease could be defeated although it left irreparable damage. “You have given TB sufferers a voice and you have given victims a face. You are a living champion of the fight against the disease. I am very proud of you,” said Mabuza. He called on traditional leaders to join the fight against TB by identifying sufferers in their communities and helping them to get treatment, which is free at government health-care centres. “We have come to Durban because we have seen that the cases of the disease are high. The bacteria that causes TB does not discriminate whether you are from the royal family or not,” he said. Motsoaledi said Durban had been rated one of the worst TB-affected metros in the country. KZN health MEC Sibongiseni Dhlomo said that last year alone, 22000 people had been  found to have the disease in the province. The king said that for Africa to win the war against the disease, it should unite and prioritise food production instead of civil wars. Drinking and smoking aggravated the pandemic, he added.