In the process, the nightmare and healing process for Chuma and her mother Magdalene “Maggie” Raseala continued. Mkhonto appeared in the Pretoria Magistrate’s Court for the fourth time yesterday on charges of attempted murder. He is accused of stabbing Chuma 24 times in January. He is alleged to have threatened to finish off Chuma if he did not go to jail. That scared both mother and daughter, which is why they want the case to be put on the roll so they can move on with their lives. When Mkhonto appeared in court last month and his case was postponed, a furious Raseala told the Pretoria News how the delays were costing her and her daughter healing time. “I don’t ever want to see this boy again, he has no place in the community,” she said. Mkhonto was arrested in January for stabbing his ex-girlfriend at his home on January 7. Raseala said on the day of the attack her daughter knocked off from night shift but did not go straight home. She knew Chuma to always notify her when she was on her way home so she would open the gate for her, but that morning she woke not knowing where her daughter was. She later checked her phone and found a message from Chuma saying she would not be coming straight home, because she was going out with friends. Reassured by the message, she was later deeply shocked when the accused’s sister told her Chuma was at their home, and explained that there was an argument between her and Mkhonto. “I started to panic, because my daughter had told me the boy displayed violent behaviour. “Initially I was angry with Mpho for going to the boy’s place after I had told her to stay away from him. “But when she told me she went because Thabiso had asked her to accompany him to a psychologist, I realised she was only trying to help,” she said earlier. The couple had broken up in November after Mkhonto allegedly attacked his mother in front of Chuma, and then slapped her in the face. Chuma gave him an ultimatum, that they would only get back together if he got help and sorted out his anger issues, so she agreed to accompany him to see a psychologist that day. The attack was apparently prompted by WhatsApp messages Mkhonto had seen on Chuma’s phone, after which he started acting strangely and aggressively. He allegedly took out a new knife and told her to say her last words, and threatened to finish her off if he did not go to jail. Chuma sustained stab wounds on her body, face, back and neck, and was traumatised, a process her mother said was exacerbated by the failure of the case to begin. Mkhonto remains in police custody after the case was postponed to next Wednesday.