On hand to officially open the four-day tournament was the city’s first citizen Solly Msimanga. From about 6am, Msimanga, clad in a pink golf tee and white cap, hit a great shot into the abyss, and the tournament  got under way. “We are thrilled as the capital city to be hosting a world-class tournament of this magnitude and are looking forward to the economic spin-offs to be generated through this tournament; this will go a long way towards creating job opportunities for the poverty-stricken and unemployed people of Tshwane,” Msimanga said. He said the city was equally overjoyed at the spirit of private-public partnerships that had alleviated the pressure on the city by freeing-up much-needed resources to provide services to the people. The flagship sports event of the “City of Champions” takes place under the theme “It’s more than just Golf” and presents the capital city with the opportunity to show off its beauty to the world. Sunshine Tour chief executive Selwyn Nathan was equally pleased with the growing success of the tournament. “Last year the Tshwane Open reached almost 460million households around the world and the global broadcast hours totalled 2263. This translates into global media coverage valued at $98.6m or more than R1billion. We’re confident that the 2018 viewership figures will surpass the previous year’s.” The tournament sees 156 international and local professional golfers compete for prizes worth nearly R16.5m, world ranking points and points in the Race to Dubai competition. Participants include the 2015 Tshwane Open champion George Coetzee; 2016 Masters champion Danny Willet; winner of last week’s Cape Town Open presented by Sun International Rhys Enoch; two-time European Tour winner Haydon Porteous; current leader on the Sunshine Tour Order of Merit Erik van Rooyen; and Shaun Norris, the Pretoria professional who has impressed on the Asian Tour for the past two years. The tournament is part of the 2017 Sunshine Tour and is co-sanctioned by the European Tour. It provides players a chance to gain Sunshine Tour Order of Merit points, European Race to Dubai points and sought-after world ranking points. It is open to the public and tickets cost R50 today and R100 tomorrow and Sunday, with free entry for pensioners and children under 16. The traditional Night Market, which was launched in 2015, will again take place from today to Sunday as a festival of cuisine, crafts and live entertainment. A Tshwane Open ticket to the tournament will also be valid for the Night Market from 6pm to 10pm today and tomorrow, and then 4pm to 9pm on Sunday.