Not only does she have a hectic schedule, but, at the age of 15 she will rank among the youngest female swimmers to represent SA at the Games. Coetzee proved she was in good form by winning three gold medals at the South African Junior Championships in Durban last week. She won the 200m as well as 400m freestyle events in her age group, and was victorious in the 200m butterfly. “I did not break any records, but it was not the plan, as I did not taper down at all for the championships. I saw it as a good, hard training session before the Commonwealth Games. “What was exciting is that I managed to qualify in the 200m and 400m freestyle races for the Youth Olympic Games,” Coetzee said. “So I am satisfied with my performance.”Coetzee bettered quite a few South African records in her age group over December, during the qualifying gala. But she has quite a hectic Games schedule. On April 5 she will be competing in the 100m butterfly as well as the 200m freestyle, then, on April 9, she will be swimming the 200m butterfly and on April 10 the 400m freestyle. She is not yet sure whether she will be competing in any of the relays. Some pundits are concerned that it might be a bit overwhelming for a competitor so young, but what Coetzee might lack in years, she makes up for with tenacity. “Getting the opportunity to compete at the Commonwealth Games is undoubtedly going to be my toughest swimming challenge ever. But I am looking forward to it. I hope I can learn enough that will stand me in good stead for the 2020 Olympic Games in Tokyo. “My main goal will be to try to improve on my personal best times. I am usually at my best when I get to compete in a final, so the challenge will be to try to improve on my times in the heats. Hopefully, if I get to do so, I might qualify for at least one final.” Coetzee is grateful for the fact that the South African swimmers are already booked in at the athletes’ villageon the Gold Coast. “It is amazing. What is great is that I have the opportunity to get used to the vibe at the Games. So when I get to compete, I won’t be overwhelmed and can focus only on what I need to do. “I have already trained in the official swimming pool. which is also good,” said Coetzee, who is also a learner at Afrikaans Hoër Meisieskool. - African News Agency (ANA)