On Monday, the parents closed down the school, stating they could no longer stand by and watch their children battle because of 
overcrowding. They gathered at the school yesterday after another promise that the mobile classes would be delivered failed to materialise. According to the parents, each classroom had 135 pupils and this was making learning a struggle for their children. An official from the department went to the school to speak to the parents, but was kept hostage by the parents, who said they were no longer willing to listen to empty promises. Parent Violet Makhubedu said things could not continue as they were at the school because teachers were struggling to do their jobs with the overcrowded classrooms. She said: “You know the situation is bad when teachers say they only know the clever and naughty pupils in class. The rest of our children just don’t get any attention.” Makhubedu said they decided to close the school down as their children could barely move around in class. The parents lamented that the school was overcrowded, partly due to the fact that children from surrounding areas such as Mamelodi, Nellmapius, foreign nationals and "anyone else" had to be taken in. Bridget Makena, who has three children attending the school, said when they were moved to the area they were assured there were schools to cater for the children. She said since 2016, they had been promised the mobile classrooms, and were more recently told they would be delivered in March, but nothing came of it. “They keep lying to us and it hurts us seeing our children sitting at home doing absolutely nothing. My eldest struggled to keep up with the workload, because of this situation and ended up failing. I can’t have that again,” she said. Sylvia Menu, deputy chairperson of the school governing body, said the department had failed to fulfil promises on numerous occasions. She said officials at the district offices stated as recently as Tuesday that the mobile classes would arrive yesterday. Menu said the parents eventually released the official who had gone to speak to them, but they would drop their children off at the department district’s offices should the promise not materialise. The department would see what to do with the children, Menu said. She said they were told containers were in Refilwe near Cullinan and would arrive as the weeks progressed. The school required 16 mobile classrooms, but Menu said they were willing to settle for six. “They have to build a proper school so our children can get a better future and education. It can’t be business as usual while our children can barely move or breathe in the classroom,” Menu added. Department spokesperson Steve Mabona said they were aware of the overcrowding challenges at Kutumela-Molefi. The department had embarked on a tender for an alternative construction technology programme in order to accelerate the delivery of the required infrastructure, he added. “As part of the intervention to address problems such as at Kutumela-Molefi, we placed the school on the additions and  upgrades programme that is delivered through alternative construction technology for an additional three ordinary classrooms and a Grade R facility. “The appointed contractor, Mathothe Construction, has underperformed and a termination notice has been effected in this regard.  A replacement contractor will be appointed in due course,” he said. The department had also appointed a service provider to deliver an additional six classrooms that were at Rethabiseng Primary School, Mabona added. This delivery was scheduled for March 1, but the appointed contractor had a delay as they have had to apply for a permit to transport an “abnormal load” from Rethabiseng to Kutumela-Molefi. The permission was granted on Tuesday and delivery of the units was imminent, Mabona said. “We wish to appeal to parents not to disrupt schooling and we commit to resolve infrastructure issues in all our schools.” Khume Ramulifho, DA provincial spokesperson for education, appealed to MEC Panyaza Lesufi to institute an audit of the infrastructure at all public schools, which were in a state of disrepair. Ramulifho said during the party’s numerous visits to schools around the province, they were confronted with schools with dilapidated infrastructure, lack of decent sanitation and many still left with asbestos buildings.