“I am pleased to report that the City of Tshwane, Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa (Prasa), commuter rail operator Metrorail and other stakeholders have agreed to form a task team to help resolve the current train service challenges on the Mamelodi corridor. This followed Prasa’s announcement that train services will remain suspended until further notice,” Senkubuge said. The task team would work closely with commuter forums and community leaders to find solutions to the challenges faced by Metrorail on the corridor. The task team is expected to hit the ground running this week, going to different wards to address complaints about commuter behaviour and infrastructure damage, among other things. Prasa suspended the service between Koedoespoort and Pienaarspoort stations after yet another train was vandalised at Eerste Fabrieke Station. The train driver was reportedly stripped naked, hit with a brick and dragged into thickets next to the tracks as part of a sustained attack on trains along the corridor. A further 10 employees were also attacked last week. In addition, the train crew, security and customer services officials were assaulted and left traumatised. One person has been arrested over the incident. Senkubuge emphasised that the suspended services had put unprecedented pressure on other public transport services such as minibus taxis, A Re Yeng bus service and others. In addition the task team would be signing a legal document of understanding this week outlining the role of various stakeholders. The acting provincial manager of Metrorail, Goodman Matampi, said a legal document would bind all the relevant role players, which included local councillors, police and transport agencies. He emphasised that it was important to have a legal document that stated, for example, that councillors would address any issues of vandalism and barbaric behaviour with their communities. “Members of the public need to realise that vandalising public property will not resolve any of their grievances. Instead, this will leave them in a worse off position as has happened now following Prasa’s decision to suspend train services,” he said. The City has called on commuters to exercise calm and restraint while the task team works on finding a lasting solution to the current situation. Commuters said they were hoping the task team would bring about desired changes. They added that in the absence of the train service, it was proving extremely expensive to switch to other modes of public transport.