This was the message from a Gauteng High Court, Pretoria, judge when confronted with a damages claim by a police officer injured when she accidentally stepped in a hole at a parking garage - the Pretoria Parkade at the Sanlam building in the Pretoria CBD. Louise Koen said she had been parking there for five years before the incident in June 2012. She never noticed the disclaimer on the back of her parking ticket nor the sign erected at the entrance to the parking garage. Pretoria Central Investments Ltd, which owned the parking garage, stated on the notice it would accept no liability for injury or death caused to any person in the parkade. Koen told the court it was dark in the parkade on June 19 when she entered it that morning because the Sanlam Building did not have electricity for two days. She walked towards the stairs and stepped in a hole with her left foot. She then noticed a cone and warning tape in the large hole. Koen said she never noticed the hole in the dark. The company which owned the parkade tried to blame the subcontractor, who was busy tilling the part of the parkade where Koen parked. They also said Koen was negligent and walked in the dark building. As a police officer, it was expected that she would use a torch to light the way or use another part of the building which had some natural light. The company also said that Koen should have been aware of the disclaimer on the back of her parking ticket and at the parkade entrance stating that by parking there, she accepted the risks. But Koen’s advocate argued the disclaimer was contrary to the Consumer Protection Act. He said the company could not run a business for gain and invite people to park there for a fee, while taking no responsibility for the person’s safety. Koen testified that she never signed on the parking ticket nor on any document indicating that she entered into a contract with the company and agreed that she entered the building at her own risk. Judge S Chesiwe agreed and said the Consumer Protection Act was clear that the interests of consumers had to be protected, including from hazards to their safety. According to the judge, the owner of the parkade owed a duty to Koen to ensure her safety at its premises. It was thus 100% liable for the damages she could prove, the judge concluded.