EFF and ANC members burst into song when the court made the second judgment against the accused this year. Magistrate France Tsatsi had earlier rejected an application to have the accused sent to Weskoppies Psychiatric Hospital for observation. Yesterday prosecutor Solly Leballo said he was proud of the favourable judgment, but said the State was always confident it would convince the court to rule against the bail application as it did the psychiatric observation application. The accused was a desperate man who initially wanted go for psychiatric observation and then fake mental illness, he said. The suspect, 45, lodged the bail application on Tuesday after abandoning it last year for safety reasons when angry community members led by the ANC Women’s League and EFF demonstrated outside the court. Magistrate David Shikwambane said defence counsel Hleketani Maluleke had failed to give the court exceptional reasons to grant bail to a suspect accused of a Schedule Six offence. “These are very serious offences The victim was a married woman who lived with her husband and family. She had a phone and tried to call for help but her phone was broken by the accused. “That led to her being allegedly raped five times. As if that was not enough, she was made to masturbate the penises of the dogs and further forced to suck the penises of the dogs,” the magistrate said. “I am told she screamed helplessly neighbours heard the screams but thought it was the accused’s family fighting as usual. She then grabbed hold of a deodorant, sprayed it on the accused and she then got a chance to run outside. Unfortunately the gate was locked. “At the time, she had nothing on. She was only wrapped in a towel. The father of the accused, poor man, had to assist The neighbour then took the victim to her home where she was (later) found by the police still wearing the towel.” The magistrate said the defence had submitted that the alleged offence was not racially motivated because the accused’s late ex-wife was a black woman. However, although that may have convinced the court that the accused might not be a racist, the submission was not enough to secure bail. He said both the State and the defence agreed it was a very serious offence. On that basis, the defence needed to provide strong exceptions for the accused to be released from police custody in a way that was still in the interests of justice. Leballo advised the court to rule against bail because that would maintain the public’s confidence in the justice system and maintain peace and security in Bronkhorstspruit. He reminded the court of the violence that had erupted in the court’s vicinity on November 14 when two farmers, Johannes Potgieter and Hendrick Dumas, accused of kidnapping a black girl and firing a rifle in her direction, were granted bail. The community had lost confidence in the justice system and subsequently damaged the court and looted small businesses close to it. The crowd had been angry after seeing the two men denied bail at Bronkhorspruit walk into the courtroom after receiving bail from the Gauteng High Court in Pretoria. The magistrate said the court thought it would not be in the public interest for the accused to be granted bail despite his signed affidavit promising to relocate to Phalaborwa so as not to interact with State witnesses. EFF sub-regional convener Olivier Mogoru said: “We are proud of the court’s judgment. We welcome it and hope that it can show that there is justice in Bronkhorstspruit.” The accused will return to court on April 24 to face charges of kidnapping, rape, sexual assault and malicious damage to property. The National Prosecuting Authority will analyse DNA results to determine if the dogs penetrated the woman.