The Independent Police Investigative Directorate (Ipid) said more suspects could appear alongside Phahlane when he and his co-accused return to court. Phahlane yesterday appeared with his wife Beauty and businessman Durandt Snyman in the Specialised Commercial Crimes Court in Pretoria. The matter was postponed to June 7 for further pre-trial procedures. The trio is facing six charges of corruption amounting to R900000. They are also accused of contravening the provisions of the Prevention and Combating of Corrupt Activities Act. The matter relates to the construction of Phahlane’s multi-million rand home and his fleet of luxury cars. Prosecutor Chris Smith asked that the matter be postponed as outstanding documents still needed to be handed over to the accused’s legal teams. The Phahlane couple and Snyman, who made their first appearance in court in February, were each granted R10000 bail. The charges stem from alleged kickbacks the former top cop, his wife and other senior officers received for the awarding of lucrative forensic supply tenders while Phahlane headed the forensic division. The alleged kickbacks were in the form of vehicles supplied to the police officers, either at a discounted rate or through paying them inflated prices for their vehicles, which they sold to Snyman. The Ipid alleged that police supplier Keith Keating, who owns forensic data analyst, facilitated the payment for Phahlane’s cars, through Snyman’s car dealership based in Pretoria. Some of the cars include a grey Land Rover Discovery 4, a grey Nissan Navara, a Toyota Hilux 3.0, a grey Mercedes Benz C250, a VW Polo, and a silver Ford Rover. Ipid alleges kickbacks were given to Phahlane through the sale of discounted vehicles to himself and several other police officers including his wife. Ipid spokesperson Moses Dlamini said there was a strong case against Phahlane who is facing at least six counts of corruption. The Hawks last year raided properties belonging to Phahlane and Keating, who is accused of gifting Phahlane with expensive cars in return for favours. Phahlane has denied any corrupt deals and claims the cars were part of a sponsorship. He was relieved of his duties as acting police commissioner in June last year.