“The 26-year-old attacker was arrested in Queenswood after giving police the run around since Sunday. We looked for him at his workplace and residence in Silverton,” Silverton police spokesperson Captain Jan Sepato said. “We went to the man’s house and no one was there, but we suspect he locked himself inside and deliberately did not open on Monday.” Police eventually arrested the man while he was out shopping and charged him with two counts of assault. A video that went viral shows a white man attacking a black man trying to fix a street light. The man being attacked is believed to be a street lights maintenance contractor for the City. The contractor was attacked at the President and Fountains streets intersection in Silverton in broad daylight on Monday. Sepato said two contractors were working on an electricity pole near the alleged perpetrator’s house. As they finished fixing the pole and taking readings, a livid man came out screaming and attacked them. One managed to escape and locked himself inside their vehicle, from where he took the video of his colleague being assaulted. The 33-second video shows the topless and barefooted attacker wrestling the contractor to the ground.  A group of white men can be seen trying to intervene, but the attacker overpowers them and drags the worker to the ground. A woman carrying a baby joins the group and watches as the man is being assaulted. The electrician is further assaulted and punched before fleeing. Mayoral spokesperson Samkelo Mgobozi said they did not know yet what had caused the assault, but said the City condemned any attacks on municipal workers. In November last year, four white men assaulted Tshwane Metro Police officer Constable Landile Zwedala at Tambotie Mall in Randfontein while he was off duty buying takeaways with his wife. He was kicked, punched and dragged across the floor before being disarmed. Three months earlier, five men were arrested for assaulting a couple in an apparent racially motivated attack at KFC in Montana. They are on trial for attempted murder assault with intent to cause grievous bodily harm and pointing a firearm. The are back in court on May 6. Pretoria News