Marwala, 46, who has been inaugurated as UJ vice-chancellor and principal, replacing Professor Ihron Rensburg, wants the university to prepare students for jobs of the future. Marwala has been lauded internationally for his research into artificial intelligence (AI), and has developed tools to change the way diseases are treated. His remarkable work has garnered more than 45 awards, including being honoured with the Order of Mapungubwe. “The creation of jobs is going to require education. We need to get people who are properly skilled to be in jobs that are more productive and generate resources. “We need to create knowledge and plan ahead for industries that are going to exist (but) don’t exist now. Somebody has to imagine them and create them and we want to be at the forefront of that,” he said. “Where is the world going? What is the role of South Africa in particular and Africa in general?” Marwala questioned. “One thing for sure is that we cannot stop the evolution of artificial intelligence. We will not be able to stop the adoption of artificial intelligence in factories. The idea of artificial intelligence is the idea we have always had to use technology to enhance what we do as industries. Are there jobs that are going to be under threat? Yes. “Are there going to be jobs that are going to be created? Yes. We might not have the skills yet to play in that space and that is where the University of Johannesburg becomes central in creating the necessary workforce that is ready for South Africa and the African continent to play a meaningful role in global development,” Marwala stressed. He said that while universities can prepare students for the workplaces of the future,  the schooling system also had a part to play in ensuring students come into tertiary education prepared. “Our schooling system should produce people who can read and people who have numeracy skills and students who are logical. If you don’t have those three things, it’ll be hard to succeed. “The failure of our system is because we are not adequately imparting numeracy skills, reading and writing skills and logic,” Marwala said. He contends that South Africa doesn’t have enough universities to cater for demand. “Our universities are becoming overcrowded. We only have 26 universities and 55 million people. Canada has 120 public universities with just 30 million people. That’s where we are supposed to be.” Only two universities - the university of Mpumalanga and Sol Plaatjie university - have been built since 1994. But, says Marwala, “we will get there”. He said the recent provision for free higher education gives more students more access to the system. This year sees the first cohort to benefit  from receiving free education, and while implementation has been a challenge, he is happy with the decision. “I cannot understand why some of us would ask where the money is coming from if the minister of finance said there is money. We have money.  It is an investment that the country is doing,” Marwala said, adding that the investment meant higher expectations of  students. “We have higher expectations of the students. I expect them to pass, to work hard, to graduate and play a meaningful role in our society. We are investing through our taxes,” he said. Marwala said that as a vice-chancellor his role was not only about improving UJ but also adding to the knowledge systems in society. “I think as leaders in society, as vice-chancellors, we have a role in society in knowledge creation. That is the space I would like to be in. My take on the job is to take our students and staff globally so that the experience prepares them to operate in a new era - the era of advanced technology.” Marwala matriculated at Mbwili Secondary School, one of the best performing schools in maths and science in the country. He holds a bachelor of science degree in mechanical engineering (magna cum laude) from Case Western Reserve University, a master’s of engineering from the University of Pretoria and a PhD in engineering from St John’s College, Cambridge. He also completed an advanced management programme at Columbia University and a program for leadership development at Harvard Business School.