They were also urged to be better advocates and knowledgeable on the different techniques used to entice pupils’ interest in literature. The teachers were taught storytelling techniques and told to practise as often as they could. They had gathered at Odi Community Hall, where they also randomly created stories which their colleagues had to finish off for them. This was at the fifth Ungasali international annual storytelling festival workshop convened by Freedom Park. The group of local and international storytellers go into communities and establishments to conduct workshops and perform at schools, as well as to teachers, early childhood developments, elderly homes and inmates. Storyteller, author and poet from Freedom Park, Wazi Kunene, said they wanted people to be aware storytelling still existed, it was still an art form, and could be a career. “People don’t know that like a musician, it’s a job,” she said. “Storytelling is an oral arts form, much like an oral museum. It’s an activity through which a person tells a story shaped in a presentable way. “Storytelling to me is as documenting my life, it’s as important as having an identity document to prove I was here. When we leave Earth storytelling is the only thing that holds our history. “People being able to tell stories about what had happened in Soshanguve - what was Soshanguve, who lived there,” Kunene said. Storytelling techniques were to assist storytellers to be eloquent and confident, to know how to be on stage to make their stories more vivid and visible, she said. Teacher Sithembile Dlamini, of MH Baloyi Secondary School, said she loved literature, which was why being able to tell a story was important to her and her pupils. “We now live in a world where children are focused on the internet and their phones, so telling a story in a boring way won’t help, which is why this workshop is a great help. “Now I know that they have to be excited when I tell a story. I have to put in emotions, it has to be visual and strong,” she said. Chantelle Schlechter, from Laerskool Danie Malan, said if teachers would make storytelling more interesting and exciting it could improve their marks. She said she had learnt a lot and would start to tell stories in a way that teaches lessons emphasising social issues. The festival aims to contribute to the basic education curriculum by offering teachers skills on teaching through storytelling, educate the public about the history and art, showcase storytelling talent, identify new talents in storytelling and demonstrate to local communities the opportunities for job creation through storytelling. It also explains the spirituality of storytelling which can be used as a foundation for social development and cohesion in the future. The festival runs for the whole week. “Storytelling stores all information because whatever we go through the story always remembers that’s where we find our information and history,” Kunene said.