Vadi and his Community Safety counterpart Sizakele Nkosi-Malobane yesterday visited the Ngcobo family in the city following the death of the student. Ngcobo was killed last Thursday night in Sunnyside, a week after he had started working as a cab driver. His charred remains were found in the boot of a car which had been set alight. “It is a very painful experience to come and speak with the family. On behalf of the Gauteng provincial government, we are deeply shocked. We are hurt. We are here to comfort the family and express our sincere condolences,” Vadi said. “You can not take a young man who is 21-years-old, who is in his final year of studies, who is earning a living to help his studies, and put him in a boot and you set the car on fire.” Vadi said what happened to Ngcobo was inhuman, and he wondered what kind of human beings would attack a young person with a bright future. He believed Ngcobo was a young person who had the potential to contribute positively to society. “This is not a human behaviour and therefore we must draw a line 
on this one as the Gauteng provincial government. "This violence between Uber, Taxify and metered taxis drivers has been going on for some time. People think they can do as they want to do. “ He said the Department of Transport didn't know who the suspect in the murder was, but should it eventually turn out that the culprit was part of the metered taxi operators, the department would not hesitate to shut down all operations of that sector in the province. “We can’t carry on like this. We can’t have barbarism and barbaric behaviour being a new norm to resolve what is basically a business dispute. It’s a commercial interest matter, we can’t allow lives to be taken in this kind of way. It is just unacceptable.” Uber and Taxify drivers have blamed the death of Ngcobo on metered taxi drivers and said it was about time there was serious political will to stop this war. Nkosi-Malobane said the special task force set up by Premier David Makhura last year to deal with the conflict was effective and had made several arrests. “To assure public faith, government will publish the information about arrests made. Releasing the information into the public domain should show people that the task team had been proactive,” she explained. Vadi said Uber and Taxify drivers came in their numbers to register for permits, but metered taxi drivers had been sluggish. Ngcobo’s aunt Nosipho Mathenjwa said the family was hurting and had little to say on the matter, except that they were grateful for the support shown to them by the politicians and the public. Ngcobo was a final-year sports management student at the Tshwane University of Technology. He will be buried on Sunday in KwaZulu-Natal.