Residents celebrated and hoped the action would reduce the use of narcotics across the infamous 
drug-infested neighbourhood. “It’s a blessing,” Lance Grier, a nearby resident, said of the demolition. “It’s always been a shooting gallery” - the term for a place where people inject drugs. “It’s gotten worse the past few years.” But drug users who had lived there for years were in a sombre mood as they watched their haven crumble into rubble. Leon Adams, 28, who has lived inside the building for a year and eight months watched in agony as the roof caved in and the bricks disintegrated. “Hulle vat my huis. Waar gaan ek slaap? (They are taking my house. Where am I going to sleep),” he said. Adams had been kicked out of his home, not too far from the cemetery,  over his drug habit. He and four other drug users sought refuge at the office block and it has been home since. In a neighbourhood riddled with drug dens, the office block had gained notoriety as one of the worst - a haven for drug addicts, dealers and prostitutes located metres away from graves. It fell into disrepair, attracting antisocial behaviour, drinking, vandalism and, in recent times, extensive drug use. Yesterday, the City of Tshwane took charge and brought down what was described as a “hell hole”. An excavator demolished the structure. Rubbish was scattered inside the four-roomed office. Beds, bags, clothes and beer bottles were scattered on the floor. Used needles, blackened spoons, bloodstained tissue and other signs of heroin use were uncovered in the derelict office. What used to be a toilet now had washing lines of old underwear and torn takkies. The office block was initially used for ablution purposes and storage. Another bigger office block has been built north of the cemetery, for the same purposes. The City’s Cemetery Services in Region 6 demolished the structure as part of the clean-up and restoration campaign of cemeteries. The director of urban management in Region 6, Billy Sipuru, said they were inundated with complaints from residents saying they didn’t feel safe when they visited the graves of relatives at the cemetery. He said it was important to demolish the building before Easter when   family rituals were performed. “It was so bad that people were scared to check on their late loved ones,” he said. Councillor Benjamin Lawrence said the property had been an issue even before he came into office. “We have tried to deal with the symptoms of the problem in the only way we can by bringing social workers in as kids live there,” he said. Demolition of the building was one step in fighting the terrible scourge of drugs in the neighbourhood, he said. In 2015, concerned residents in the area told former president Jacob Zuma that their community was in crisis and no one was safe from the effects of drug abuse. Zuma was at a presidential imbizo in the area where the local action committee estimates that about 15000 people were hooked on some form of drugs. Zuma vowed the government would intervene.