Jane Mohapi, of Ganyesa Village, claimed more than R2 million from the police in the Gauteng High Court, Pretoria, for herself and her three children following the loss of her husband. Samuel Gabanakgosi was the breadwinner of the family. The station commander of the Ganyesa police station allegedly killed Gabanakgosi when he fired at a crowd of people at the tavern. The officer said, however, that he fired warning shots into the ground and did not realise at the time that anyone was hit. He said he did not have a choice but to fire as the crowd was aggressive and pelted the police with bottles. The police were conducting a routine crime prevention operation during that Easter weekend. One of their stops was the tavern to establish whether the owner was adhering to the liquor laws. The court was told that when the police got to the tavern late on the night of March 29, 2013, a large group of patrons was outside, including Gabanakgosi. They said the crowd shouted at them and surrounded their vehicle, while some of their colleagues were inside the tavern, which was about to close. The police outside the tavern said they were pelted with bottles and stones while they remained inside their vehicle. One of the officers got out of the vehicle and asked the crowd to stop. He explained that they were only on a routine visit to the tavern, but the crowd would not listen. The officer said people in the crowd grabbed him by the clothes and tried to disarm him. He fired warning shots into the ground, after which he said the crowd backed off. The police then left. The officer said that early the next morning the tavern owner went to the police station and reported that there was a dead man outside his tavern. The police went back and found Gabanakgosi. The officer was adamant that he did not aim any shots at anybody, but  had fired into the ground. The Independent Police Investigative Directorate (Ipid) is still investigating the matter after all these years to decide on any criminal charges. The widow has said in court papers that her husband’s death was the direct result of the unlawful actions of the police. She battled to feed her children without his salary and his funeral had cost a lot of money. Lawyer Tim Vlok said the man worked as a security guard for Fidelity Security Group at the time of his death and was the sole breadwinner of the family. The police have agreed to pay the widow R636 712 as the final settlement to her claim. The settlement was made an order of court by Deputy Judge President Aubrey Ledwaba. Pretoria News