They were filled with excitement as they stood on their toes with broad smiles at assembly, waiting patiently for staff from Freedom Park's outreach programme to address them. This was during the fourth day of Freedom Park’s fifth Ungasali Annual Storytelling Festival, which takes the old art to communities, early childhood development practitioners, schools, old-age homes and prisons. And they brought storytellers from Botswana, Kenya and locally to mesmerise parents and pupils in a bid to bring the tradition of telling stories back in a creative way. Parents, and staff from the Tshwane Library, the Gauteng Department of Education and the Nal’ibali educational reading programme attended the event. Sthembiso Nhlapo from  Nal’ibali said: “Reading and storytelling have been part of our lives for many generations. It's a critical issue because it's part of who we are; that’s where we get to learn, imagine and explore.” Children built a foundation of understanding when stories were read, or told, to them, but the process had to be repeated every day for it to be completely effective. While he taught parents how to teach their children to read, he emphasised the need for parents to start by telling stories in their mother tongue, to build a stronger foundation.  Parent Isabel Mogole from Mabopane said storytelling was something she would practise at home every day, and she would do so creatively. Another parent, Reitumetse Rapulana, was concerned about parents not buying their children books, and not instilling a culture of reading in them. “Parents, when you are going shopping, books should be part of your grocery list - when a child reads it goes beyond the classroom,” Rapulana said. Children in all grades at the school boldly, and confidently, participated in reading and storytelling. But they kept glancing at the reading bus, waiting in great anticipation to read the books inside. A storyteller from Freedom Park, Justinus Dikgale, told parents that if they made storytelling a priority, their vocabularies would grow. Finally, children at the school, from the youngest to oldest, stood at the reading bus, taking turns to page through the books, getting lost in the stories, some as old as the hills.