For now Inxeba (The Wound) has been unbanned by the Gauteng High Court, Pretoria, and will be back on mainstream cinema screens from Friday (March 9). The X-rating of the movie was temporarily lifted by agreement between the parties, and it was agreed that the film would, for now, carry an 18 age restriction. The lifting of the X-rating imposed on Inxeba earlier this month by the Film and Publication Board’s Appeal Tribunal is only temporarily, pending the outcome of review proceedings before the court, which will be heard on March 28. The various parties opposing the screening of the film at mainstream cinemas vowed they would be back to put up a fight. They said the film disrespects women, it is riddled with vulgarities and incites rape and violence. “It also misrepresents and distorts traditional initiation and it encourages initiates to, after the ceremony,  go and test their manhood,” Nkululeko Nxesi, of the Man and Boy Foundation, said outside court. The war was far from over, he vowed. “As you know a war has different battles. We won the first battle (at the appeals tribunal). Today (yesterday) they won a part of the battle. But the war is not yet won.” Nxesi, who was part of a colourful dressed group at court yesterday, said there were many cultural issues at stake, which could not be fought during urgent court proceedings, but needed time to be placed before court. “You cannot just come from Brazil and shoot a film here that insults our women and breaks our culture. We are sure we are going to win this battle, because we have the community and the country behind us,” he said. The film’s producers and distributor - Indigenous Film Distribution Ltd and Urucu Media Lt - want the court to review and set aside the X-rated classification. Their main argument is that the X-rating classified the film as hardcore pornography - meaning it can only be viewed at “adult premises” known as “sex shops”. The Film and Publication Appeal Tribunal said it reclassified the film from a 16 age restriction to X18 following numerous complaints by cultural organisations, which among others, objected to the homosexuality depicted in the film, the violence and the vulgar language used. The Films and Publication Board, which initially classified it with a 16 age restriction, is not opposing the review application. It said it stood by its rating of 16 and it didn't agree with the X-rating given by the 
Tribunal. It made it clear that it was a separate entity from the appeals tribunal. Inxeba is an international co-production between South Africa and some international countries and it explores themes of masculinity, tradition and homosexuality. It tells the story of a lonely factory worker who joins the men in his community in the mountains of the Eastern Cape to initiate a group of teenage boys into manhood. Producer Cait Pansegrouw said she hoped the opposition to the film would be brought to an end so that South Africans who wanted to view it, could do so in future. Director John Trengove said: “Getting back on to screens in mainstream cinemas is a vindicated victory. The South African film and arts community, however, still deserves a real explanation of how the tribunal arrived at such an embarrassing violation of our legal and constitutional rights in the first place.”