The country's biggest public sector unions, Nehawu and Sadtu, said they viewed the allegations against Dlamini in a serious light and expected Cosatu's officials to swiftly deal with them. Yesterday, Cosatu officials had an ordinary meeting during which Dlamini, an ANC national executive committee member and SACP central committee leader, is said to have explained himself on the claims of bribery investigated by the Hawks. Dlamini's detractors in the federation have for some time been trying to dislodge him in dealing with Zuma's legacy in Cosatu and were set to use the bribe claims to deal a blow to his political career. Nehawu yesterday called on Cosatu's national office bearers to take them into their confidence on Dlamini. Nehawu general secretary  Zola Saphetha said the union, whose national office bearers are meeting today where they will also discuss the Dlamini's matter, was waiting for Cosatu leaders to brief them on the "serious" allegations. Dlamini is alleged to have received a R300000 bribe from abalone dealer Deon Larry to help arrange a meeting with Zuma who was in turn allegedly bribed with R1million in exchange for not firing Agriculture Minister Senzeni  Zokwana, also SACP national chairperson. “Corruption has no space in South Africa. We will fight it. We are yet to hear from the leadership of Cosatu on this matter. Nehawu wants answers. We take the allegations seriously and we'd like the leadership of Cosatu to take us into their confidence. We are having our own meeting as Nehawu where we'll decide how we approach this." Dlamini has often faced fierce opposition within Cosatu due to his proximity to Zuma, who had fallen out with the federation, which banned him from its gatherings while he was still president of the ANC and the country. With the federation's elective congress scheduled for later this year, the allegations could deal a huge blow to Dlamini's ambitions to return to the helm of the federation. Dlamini, who has denied the allegations against him, could not be reached for comment yesterday. Sadtu deputy general secretary Nkosana Dolopi called on the federation’s leadership to take action . “The Cosatu leadership must brief leaders of affiliates about what action they are taking. At our meeting tomorrow we will take a collective resolution on this matter." SACP national spokesperson Alex Mashilo said the party would take action against Zokwana should the allegations be found to be true. “If you are in the SACP leadership and facing serious charges in a court of law, we ask you to step aside until you clear yourself,” he said. Mashilo said Zokwana denied any knowledge of the allegations. He slammed businessman Charlie Seretse, who made the bribe claims, accusing him of being aggrieved by Zokwana’s cancelling a tender unlawfully awarded to his company by the department.