Mabuza was in Sharpeville in the Vaal yesterday where he addressed the official Human Rights Day commemorating the 1960 Sharpeville Massacre. “Our country is in desperate need of renewal. We need to renew ourselves. We must begin to do things differently. We must again become men and women of courage, like those who came before us. This requires that we conduct ourselves ethically and that we become public servants that serve all our people with dignity, nationally, provincially and at local level,” he said. “Our state must be led by people of high moral aptitude,” he added. Mabuza called for the day not to be used just for commemoration, but also for reflecting and measuring on how South Africa has been able to address the challenges people struggled and died for, including ending poverty, violence and inequality. “At heart of all these struggles was the struggle for equality and dignity. In our journey to heal the wounds of the past, our country yearns for many other people who will fight for justice of our people as a whole. “Each generation must take up its struggle. Never must our pains and our past paralyse us,” Mabuza said. Also attending the commemoration were ministers, deputy ministers and political heads of the Gauteng provincial governments, including Arts and Culture Minister Nathi Mthethwa and acting premier Panyaza Lesufi. Mabuza lamented that the country was on a wrong path, with violence against women and racism becoming rampant. He said the democratic breakthrough would gain value through the upliftment of those who were living on the margins of society. “Our freedoms remain meaningless if the majority of our people remain trapped in poverty without work, food and without land. We must use the limited state resources for the benefit of our people, not for the benefit of the few connected and corrupt,” he said. PAC president Narius Moloto, who also addressed the event, called for more co-operation between the ANC and the PAC to help fast-track transformation, including land reform for the benefit of the black majority. “We need to work together to foster the spirit of nationhood. As liberation movements, we need to work together especially on national day to unite our people and remind them where we are from. “The PAC is committed to work with the ANC to ensure that our people are totally, socially and economically free. There are those who came before us. There are those fought apartheid and oppression. Now we must lay a solid foundation for the youth and let them know that the land belongs to them and they must work on it,” Moloto said. See Page 2