Yesterday, the ANC urged residents in Hammanskraal and a neighbouring area to desist from drinking water from the Rooiwal Wastewater Treatment Plant because it was contaminated. The official opposition in the City said the water had traces of faeces and therefore posed a danger to people’s lives. The ANC’s Jane Makgato said she had developed a skin rash, which she suspected was as a result of the water from the treatment plant. “I have a rash. I went to the doctor and he said I must not drink the tap water anymore. There are many people who call us and say they have stomach bugs and diseases affecting them. "We cannot concretely say it is the water, but we are assuming that is because of the faeces spilling into the Apies River,” Makgato said. She said people were already buying water because they feared getting sick from the drinking water in the area. However, mayoral spokesperson Samkelo Mgobozi rejected the claims that the water in Hammanskraal was not healthy for consumption. “The treatment plant provides decent drinking water. People there can definitely drink the water. They can continue to drink the water. Our water purification system is fine in that area." Mgobozi said the City needed at least R60billion to address all the plant's issues, but it didn’t have 
the financial muscle to do so. The City previously said it would have cost the ANC far less if it had attended to the problem in 2010 when it was in power in the capital and hadn't allowed it to deteriorate. MMC for utility services Darryl Moss said the administration was looking at alternative financing methods such as public-private-partnerships. The City’s long-term solution to the problem would be through the expansion of the plant’s treatment capacity, he said. The City was preoccupied with finding both long-term solutions and short-term improvement plans to deal with the spillage. “This short term plan to upgrade the plant will cost about R180million, and the process to appoint a consulting engineer and a contractor is in the supply chain process,” he said. But Makgato said: “As the ANC in Tshwane we would like to register our dissatisfaction with the deplorable state of our waste water treatment plant in the municipality, and the lack of action from the administration, particularly the MMC for utility services (Moss).” She accused the DA-led administration of mismanaging the plant despite numerous complaints from residents. “Last month, as the ANC caucus, we did highlight the happenings at the Rooiwal Wastewater Treatment Plant,” she said. She said the spillage into the Apies River polluted the nearby farmlands and put the lives of the people of Hammanskraal and Rooivalk at risk. “The people of Hammanskraal continue to be affected with faeces and other health hazards posed by the spillages. "There is now a complaint emanating from the Klipgat Wastewater Treatment Plant, that the plant is dysfunctional,” she said.