The two-day event, which started yesterday, will share advances and fill gaps to becoming a weather-smart nation. Chief executive Jerry Lengoasa said the Weather Smart Science Symposium was meant to share the latest research findings from the weather research community, whose outputs are important for weather warnings and climate predictions to ordinary South Africans. “The reason we’re doing this is because this year's theme for World Meteorological Day is ‘Weather Ready, Climate Smart’. "This means that everywhere in the world this month all weather services focus on how to make all nations of the world weather ready for extreme events such as tornadoes, which we have seen in South Africa, heavy rainfall, flash floods and heatwaves. “So we discuss how to make sure we have knowledge that we can share with communities on what to do when we have conditions like that, how to prevent loss of life and how to prevent huge economic losses. We also share information on how communities can avoid risk from weather events,” Lengoasa said. The focus yesterday was climate readiness. “These things take time, for example the drought in the Western Cape did not start yesterday. It’s been on for three years so in that time the question is, how can we make information available for ordinary citizens - but also for decision makers well in advance of the actual event - so that early action is taken to anticipate and deal with that risk?” he said. Some of the action happening now was rather late, he said, because if proactive steps had been taken ages ago during discussons on climate change, they could have made the right decision to deal with the situation. “Our science is advanced enough to make information available in advance,” Lengoasa said. The SA Weather Service was making advances in science enabling it to foretell weather conditions so that people knew well in advance on how to prevent disaster, he said. “Forecasts needs to move from telling people what the weather will be to what the weather will do,” one speaker at the Weather Smart Science Symposium emphasised. Lucky Ntsangwane said the weather service’s main strategic priority was to develop and translate science into applications to meet social needs and impact-based early weather warnings. Dr Andries Kruger presented a paper on the state of the climate, and said that last year the country had experienced the warmest weather since 1951.