Alphius Mohlabane, 36, of Hammanskraal, and Solomon Choma, 41, of Phomolong, were so aggrieved after being fired that they set alight an A Re Yeng bus, leaving one person dead. They were convicted on five charges - murder, attempted murder, public violence, damaging public property and being in possession a petrol bomb (a container with petrol). Gauteng High Court, Pretoria Judge Bert Bam sentenced the pair to a total of 43 years imprisonment, but ordered that they serve an effective 25 years. They were part of the illegal 2016 Tshwane Rapid Transit (TRT) strike, after which 99 bus drivers were dismissed. TRT is a City of Tshwane entity which operates the A Re Yeng system. At the time, it received various threats following the dismissal of the bus drivers. The court heard this week that the company - in a bid to safeguard the temporary bus drivers and commuters - arranged for alternative security measures. Security guards drove in vehicles alongside buses at the time. But on October 5, 2016, the security vehicle was about 200m away when the bus, which had stopped outside Steve Biko Hospital to pick up commuters, went up in flames. Two of their co-accused, who were also bus drivers, Vusi Mashiane and Whity Ntali, were this week cleared of all charges, but Judge Bam remarked that it was not to say there was no connection between them and Mohlabane and Choma. He found that it was not pure coincidence, as claimed by the defence, that five former bus drivers - all of whom had been fired -were waiting for the same bus at the same spot that day. There was, however, no evidence connecting Ntali and Mashiane to the setting alight of the bus. CCTV footage inside the bus clearly linked Mohlabane and Choma to the crimes, the judge said. Their former colleague, Daisy Makeke, who threw petrol into the bus seconds before it went up in flames, died as she too caught fire in the process. She had also been fired from the bus company. The footage screened in court clearly showed Makeke enter the stationary bus. She had a black bucket containing petrol, which she emptied into the bus. The footage also depicted Mohlabane, Choma, Mashiane and Ntali next to the bus, engaging with each other. Mohlabane was seen in the footage carrying a dark bucket, which he placed outside the bus when he entered it. Choma also carried a container, although it was never determined what it contained. He claimed it was to fetch “holy water” from Marabastad, while Mohlabane said his bucket contained a broken oil filter. Judge Bam remarked that seconds after he placed the bucket outside the bus, Makeke, holding a similar bucket with petrol, emptied it into the bus. The judge said while there was no direct evidence of the two accused committing a crime, looking at all the evidence in totality it was clear that they were all planning together to take revenge by setting the bus alight. The judge said violence in the country was prevalent and people did what they wanted. “They ignore the laws of the land and people are killed or injured in the 
process.” He said the student who was trapped inside the bus when it burnt, was in hospital for nearly four months. She now bears the physical scars across her face and body. “Violence in our country is costing the taxpayers millions and it is totally unnecessary. This cannot be tolerated,” Judge Bam told the pair.