“No amount of money will ever replace my sister.” These are the heart-wrenching words of Christine Nxumalo who lost her “loving and supportive” sister Virginia Machpelah during the Life Esidimeni marathon project in 2015. Speaking to Independent Media yesterday, a day before the head of the arbitration process, retired deputy chief justice Dikgang Moseneke, was due to announce his decision, Nxumalo said the families had been through a difficult time. “I cannot say what we are expecting. The money does not even begin to justify what we went through. Money will never replace my sister (or the lives of all the other patients). It doesn’t matter how much we are paid. I don’t think the award will take away the pain we have been through,” Nxumalo said. The DA in Gauteng yesterday said Life Esidimeni was expected to cost the provincial government R47million. Nxumalo said the families were looking forward to the day when those responsible for the tragedy were charged criminally. “Criminal charges will be the most satisfactory. It will ease the pain. The award will be a piece of justice,” she said. Nxumalo said the arbitration hearings had “shed some light on what really happened”. Machpelah died after she was moved from Life Esidimeni to Precious Angels, one of dozens of ill-equipped, non-governmental organisations which cared for psychiatric patients after former MEC Qedani Mahlangu cancelled the Life Esidimeni contract to “cut costs”. Health ombudsman Professor Malegapuru Makgoba found that some of the patients died of hunger, dehydration and negligence. He singled out Mahlangu and two former senior officials - Barney Selebano, who was provincial head of department and Makgabo Manamela who was director of mental health in the province. They both resigned after testifying at the arbitration hearings held in Joburg from last year. “The arbitration outlined to some extent what had happened. Before the hearings, we knew what was going on but we did not know what had really happened. We now know who was responsible and how they did it,” Nxumalo said. Gauteng premier David Makhura said in a response to the DA’s Jack Bloom in the legislature that the government had spent R15.7m so far on the arbitration hearings. “The amount of R15.7m has been spent as at February 12, 2018. Funds were requested from the provincial treasury during the 2017/18 budget adjustment process by the office of the premier. “The expected approximate total amount (in relation to all expenses in this whole matter) is R17.6m in the current financial year, R14.3m in 2018/19 and R15.1m in 2019/20,” Makhura said in his response. He said more than R2m had been spent on a “communication campaign undertaken to invite families of the deceased and the public to come forward and register their details for participation in the ADR (Alternative Dispute Resolution) process”. “Communication expenses were incurred for public announcements on both print and electronic media,” Makhura said. He said that other expenses included: Emoyeni Conference Centre as the venue for the hearings - R8.38m; Mirror Effect Trading for video production and streaming services - R1.49m; Werkmans Attorneys, the state lawyer - R1.18m; Vila Mora Express for transport services - R1.12m; Wits Language School for sign language and interpretation services - R639 679; Uqhakaziso Trading & Projects for recording services - R423250; and Obakeng van Dyk and Aviwe Ralarala were paid a combined R154875 for “support to arbitrator”. “This is grossly excessive, bearing in mind that Emoyeni is owned by the provincial government which has an arrangement with a private company to rent it out. I will be asking questions on how this can be justified and who has profited from this. “It remains to be seen if enough has been budgeted to cover the financial award that former deputy chief justice Dikgang Moseneke will be announcing tomorrow for the relatives of those who died. “Financial compensation is necessary but not sufficient for the Esidimeni tragedy, which also requires the criminal prosecution of all those responsible for the deaths,” Bloom said.