Local MMC for Human Settlements Mandla Nkomo said the number of cases of damaged houses continued to grow by the day. “I don’t want to thumbsuck the numbers of houses that were damaged because the cases change every day. "Last time we had the number at 100, but obviously it is growing as cases are reported,” he said. He said the City had not yet calculated the cost of damages. He would meet the provincial Human Settlements MEC Uhuru Moiloa to discuss the type of assistance they could provide to victims. During the torrential rains many residents, especially those living in low-lying areas, were evacuated from their homes to safer places. “I am going to meet the MEC to see how we can assist. Until we meet the MEC I can’t say what type of help the victims are going to get from the City,” he said. The City didn’t have a budget to assist those badly affected by the downpours. Tshwane Emergency Services spokesperson Johan Pieterse said: “The damage that we responded to were in the flooded areas. I will not be able to determine the damage in terms of the costs.” MMC for Roads and Transport Sheila-Lynn Senkubuge said it was difficult to estimate the cost of damage to the roads at this stage. “It is going to take a few days to calculate this. I can’t give the exact costs right now.” Asked whether the City had a budget to repair damages, she said: “We will have to speak with our finance team, because as I said earlier this year with the sinkhole on Jean Avenue in Centurion, there wasn’t a budget allocated to that particular sinkhole.” Senkubuge cautioned road users to be on high alert for severe damages to roads in parts of the metro. Another sinkhole developed on Stephanus Schoeman Road in Valhalla due to the persistent rainfall, she said. A car drove into it in the early hours of Friday. The MMC said the City would work with the Gauteng government to fix the hole because it occurred on a provincial road. The road was closed to traffic at the two end points - the eastern side close to the intersection with Alaric Road and the western section at the R55. “It remains unclear at the moment how long it will take to fix the damage and the road will remain closed. Road users are advised to use alternative routes. “Another road subsidence depression has been reported between 1st and 3rd roads along the R55 in Laudium, west of the city. Traffic has been rerouted to access roads within the suburb,” Senkubuge said. Meanwhile, on Saturday Moiloa visited the victims of floods in Mamelodi Extension 11 and an informal settlement called Marikana. Shacks in Marikana had been submerged by floods last week and dwellers were evacuated. Some of the shacks in the informal settlement were erected on the bank of the river. During the visit, residents continued to sweep out rainwater from their shacks.They also took out their furniture to dry out in the sun. Moiloa said: “People are staying in a place which is not suitable for human habitation. The place is a wetland, a water catchment area.” He said dwellers had confessed that they bought stands from someone who illegally sold them. “They were paying R350 to get the stands. There is an element of criminality that is associated with land grabs and illegal land occupation,” he said. Moiloa promised that the department would investigate the sale of stands and report cases to the police. “We want them to be arrested,”he said. Moiloa pointed fingers at the City of Tshwane for failing to act against illegal land occupiers. “This happened in the land that is owned by the municipality. "Why is the municipality not acting by implementing its by-laws when the people break the law? “It is something that the municipality has to explain to me because we have to get into a partnership with the municipality as the province to ensure we deliver quality of life to people. “We all have to play ball. But if the municipality does not  implementing its by-laws and it allows this kind of lawlessness to go on, then we are not going to have a country,” Moiloa said.