They said Kenoshi had held the hospital together for the 20 years he held the reins, creating a legacy that would carry it to greater heights. “You have been a father to us; you have kept and open door policy and lent us an ear, whether it was for professional or personal matters,” said Cindy Paulsen who had worked in his office before retiring. She, professors, doctors, worker unions, other hospital departments and health institutions in the city said he had been a beacon, guiding, training and ensuring the hospital and patients received only the best. “Your excellent management skills encouraged us to do better, to excel and even as you leave your legacy is written all over the hospital,” said Paulsen. She told him he was leaving a well oiled machine. “You taught everyone of the staff working here well. Go and retire and enjoy your golden years." The 68-year-old was thanked by doctors and professors, finance staff and human resources personnel for encouraging the teaching and training of professionals. The hospital is a teaching institution linked to the University of Pretoria, with which it shares training and practice departments. “The university spoke of the massive loss of a great man when they heard you were leaving,” head of the anaesthesiology department Professor Arthur Rantloane said. He said all who had passed through the hospital were only richer for Kenoshi’s support for their academic development. “Under your supervision we have grown to be the best public hospital in the country." Mediocrity was not an option under the leadership of the outgoing doctor, he said. “The fat lady has sung, do not listen to those who want to sing the last song or who ask for the last dance; go home and rest, you deserve itfarewell doctor,” he said. Kenoshi has, for the past few years, worked hand in hand with Dr Mathabo Mathebula, who is acting in the CEO position while the Health Ministry looks to find a replacement worthy to fill his shoes. She said: “allow us access to your knowledge and wisdom. Do not retire and sit down, it is not in your character." The big problem was, who would be able to properly do the job he had done? "You have been respectful, humble, willing to teach and listen will the new person work as hard?” she asked. Professor Sam Mokgokong, who heads surgery at the hospital, said Kenoshi had led from the front and encouraged everyone to go the extra mile. “You brought so much excellence to the hospital even the Health Minister came here for treatment under your leadership public health care has transformed into the best." Trade unions also praised Kenoshi, saying while they had had their disagreements, he had united them and set the bar high for other hospital heads. With his wife Ruth looking on, Kenoshi also took to the podium and, with an outpouring of emotion thanked the people who had worked with him through the years in the hospital. “None would've been possible without all of you." He had only allowed their minds to expand and grow, he said, and the fruits were a hospital standing head and shoulders above others in the country, treating patients from across the continent.