Pretoria - Scores of Tshwane University of Technology students and Uber and Taxify vehicles flooded the streets of the capital city demanding for justice for murdered Taxify driver Siyabonga Ngcobo. Ngcobo, 21, was kidnapped and locked up up the boot of a Chevrolet Aveo, which was then set alight in Sunnyside. His death was widely blamed on rival metered taxi drivers. Metered taxi drivers denied involvement in the death of Ngcobo but it is understood police investigations are at a sensitive stage. Read: #JusticeForSiyabonga: TUT students demand killers be arrested Taxify cab driver's 'brutal murder' angers Gauteng authorities Sunnyside police spokesperson Captain Daniel Mavimbela said any information released about the investigation, over and above what is already in the public domain, could jeopardise the probe. The students and drivers said this demonstration should showcase how serious the public was concerned about the murder of the 21-year-old who was in his final year of Sports Management. The crowd and some people who were close to Ngcobo made a stop at the corner of Willow and Normaal street where Ngcobo was burnt. Ash and soot could still be spotted on the ground at the intersection. Leaving candles at the spot will hopefully send a message to the police to speed up investigation, according to students. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. A young woman who is a relative of Ngcobo could be seen crying at the site where he was killed. #NotInMyName South Africa general-secretary Themba Masango introduced family members to the crowd and said the students wanted to make a commitment to them that they would not rest until justice was served for Ngcobo. "South Africa, this is a time to mourn. We have arrived at a time where we are no longer shocked by the gruesome crimes that happen. We want the police to stop the violence and make arrests. Enough with statements. We are thank you for all South Africans standing here in solidarity with the family. His death will not be in vain," The students and drivers wanted new Minister of Transport Blade Nzimande to intervene and help combat taxi violence as soon as he settled in his office following his deployment by President Cyril Ramaphosa.  james.mahlokwane@inl.co.za  Pretoria News