No reason was given by Gauteng High Court, Pretoria, Judge Papi Mosopa, but it is believed that it was due to security concerns. The prosecution as well as the three defence advocates met the judge as he was about to enter the courtroom after lunch, leading to his instruction that the courtroom be cleared. It is believed that the teams did not feel comfortable in proceeding with the trial amid security concerns. According to sources, it was suspected that some people in the public gallery were armed, but this could not be confirmed. This, as CCTV footage, which the State said depicted the group of men following Bozwana in October 2015 - the day he was allegedly assassinated at the Garsfontein off-ramp at the N1 - came under the spotlight during proceedings. Sipho Patrick Hudla, 34, of Soweto; Matamela Robert Mutapa, 40, of Bramley; Vusi Reginald Mathibela, 30, of Midrand; and Bonginkosi Paul Khumalo, 36, of Johannesburg all earlier pleaded not guilty to Bozwana’s murder and the attempted murder of his lover and business partner, Mpho Baloyi. The State claimed the accused and other unidentified men followed Bozwana and Baloyi while they were shopping at Sandton City and later as they had lunch at McDonald’s in Greystone Avenue. It is also claimed that the couple were followed when they took the N1 to Pretoria. The CCTV footage, under dispute by the defence, allegedly depicted the accused and other unknown men at these scenes. The defence advocates are disputing the authenticity of the footage, as it apparently consists of edited snippets taken from various cameras which operated at various points that day. It was then put together to be viewed as one piece of footage. The court started viewing the footage yesterday afternoon. It depicted the movements of Bozwana and Baloyi at Sandton City that day. Among other things, it depicted the couple each having a manicure and a pedicure at a hair salon at the mall, before they left to have lunch at McDonald’s restaurant in GreystoneAvenue. Baloyi, who last year testified about the events when the occupants of a car parked behind them at a traffic light at the Garsfontein off-ramp opened fire at them, was called back to the stand yesterday. She testified about the pair's movements that day and confirmed that the footage was a true reflection of their whereabouts. The viewing of the footage will proceed today. Bozwana was at the time of his death embroiled in legal proceedings with the North West Province regarding alleged tender irregularities. Baloyi, who was driving the car on the day of the shooting and who was severely injured by the bullets, earlier told the court she saw the door of a luxury BMW sports car, which stopped behind them at a red traffic light at the off-ramp, swing open. However, she did not see if anyone got out of the vehicle or who fired the shots that killed Bozwana. Bozwana, who was in the passenger seat, tried to shield Baloyi from the bullets and was hit. Baloyi, who was also wounded, managed to drive the car to a nearby Glasfit outlet in spite of her injuries, and got help. They were taken to the Unitas Hospital, where they received emergency medical treatment. Bozwana died later that day from blood loss due to multiple gunshot wounds.