Workers responsible for installing stormwater drains, pavements and vegetation meant to beautify the Square told the Pretoria News that when they stopped working last week, it was the second time they had downed tools. They said the root of the problem was the concern about their salaries as they had been working without contracts. They said they had been worried about this issue since November. Their employer ,Thalami Civils, is subcontracted to Vharanani Properties to bring to reality the City’s dream of a new-look Church Square. The facelift, when completed, will change the narrative of the area by keeping the statues of Paul Kruger and his three generals, adding other legendary figures such as Kgosi Mampuru II. The workers said they stopped working after they had been reporting for duty for two weeks without contracts. Their latest two-month contracts ended on February 28, but they continued to work until the employer said the company could not risk putting them to work for an entire month without contracts. The workers said they had been under the impression that Thalami Civils was not paying them because the City was not paying Vharanani Properties. They had worked for two weeks without contracts this month and were yet to be paid for that period, they said. A worker who spoke for the group on condition he remained anonymous for fear of reprisals, said: “We are always being given two- and three-month contracts because the companies are not sure when the project will be completed. “When we stopped working late last year, we were not sure about our contracts and if we would get paid. We are dealing with the same situation again. We cannot keep working under this uncertainty.” City spokesperson Lindela Mashigo said they did not owe Vharanani anything as all invoices due to the company were paid. He said they were aware of delays in Vharanani paying its subcontractor, Thalami Civils, but the City had intervened and the matter had been resolved. MMC for Roads and Transport Sheila-Lynn Senkubuge said the City attended to the matter as soon as it had found out that workers were not reporting for duty for the project, which was expected to be completed in April. Yesterday, however, there was no construction activity at the site. Numerous pallets of bricks were wrapped in plastic, while those that were loose and ready to be used were scattered on the ground. Thalami Civils director Thando Gojojwane could not reveal details about what had transpired. Vharanani Properties spokesperson Seipati Tlaka said the company would communicate on what had happened today after consultation with its senior executives. The stoppage is a blow to the City’s grand plans to give the Square a new look, complete with trees, improved benches and lawns. The project first made headlines when it was announced, and later when architects said they were anxious about insensitive alterations which could pose a threat to its historical heritage. Another debate ensued on whether the statue of Kruger would be part of the new dispensation. However, chairperson of the South African Geographical Names Council Johnny Mohlala said he was positive about the future of Church Square. He said he was hopeful it would encourage people of different backgrounds to sit together and have positive and meaningful conversations about the past and the future. Mohlala was part of the task team set up by Minister of Arts and Culture Nathi Mthethwa to investigate transformation of the country’s heritage landscape. The team wanted to discuss which statues, symbols and names of apartheid icons and events needed to be removed or changed and which ones should stay behind.