Statistician-General Risenga Maluleke this week released the 2016 Mortality and Causes of Death report which shows notable differences in the leading causes of death by population group. However, he said he could not give reasons why, as StatsSA  is responsible only for collecting data “rather than dealing with the causes, reason and impacts". The leading cause of death - TB, was ranked first for the black population at 91.1% and second for the coloured population group at 7.8%. However, it was not a significant cause of death among whites and Indians. Among the white population, the leading cause of death was ischaemic heart diseases - making up 40.7% of deaths, compared to 35.5% among the black 
population. TB remained the leading cause of death among the youth in seven provinces - excluding Gauteng and Limpopo - where heart disease and pneumonia were revealed as the leading cause. Maluleke said although the mortality rate in the country declined in 2016, diseases of the circulatory system were the top ranking main group of death by natural causes for the first time in 21 years. These include, coronary artery disease, stroke, hypertension and heart attacks. Causes of death are divided into communicable diseases, non-communicable diseases and non-natural deaths. TB remained the number one cause of mortality even though it had declined in the period 
measured. Of the total of around 450000 deaths in 2016, 405370 (88.8%) were due to natural causes and 51242 (11.2%) were attributed to non-natural causes. Men accounted for 52.7% of the deaths, while 47.3% were women. Deaths due to non-natural causes were higher for men than women, especially in the 20-24 year age group. Assault was the leading non-natural cause of death for men and transport accidents were at the forefront for women. The results showed that deaths peaked as people progress into old age; as indicated among males between 60 and 64 years, and females, 75 to 79 years. Women, with an average age of 62 years, outlived men (52.7 years). The pattern observed is that South Africa was undergoing “an epidemiological transition”, with deaths shifting from being more likely to emanate from communicable diseases to deaths characterised by non-communicable causes, such as diabetes. In 2016, 57.4% of deaths were due to non-communicable diseases relative to communicable diseases (31.3%). Maluleke said, percentage wise, Mpumalanga had the highest proportion of TB deaths per population at 8%, followed by the Eastern Cape at 7.9%, and the North West at 7.4%. HIV was the third largest cause of death for men but only the sixth largest for women, and overall, the results showed a considerable burden of disease from non-communicable diseases and signs of a sizable proportion of deaths associated with diabetes, primarily driven by females. In 2016, there were 15506 diabetes deaths among females, 62.7% higher than the 9723 deaths recorded for males. Diabetes accounted for a higher proportion of deaths in the Western Cape (7.7%), KwaZulu-Natal (6.6%) and Limpopo (6.3%). It was the leading cause in parts of Western Cape (Cape Winelands, Cape Town, and Eden); Eastern Cape (Nelson Mandela Bay); KwaZulu-Natal (uMgungundlovu) and 
Limpopo (Vhembe). Both males and females, aged 45 and above, showed clear signs of increasing proportions of diabetes deaths.