The company’s main argument is that as things now stand - the classification of the movie as hardcore pornography - the film can only be viewed at “adult premises” or “sex shops” and no longer at mainstream cinemas. Indigenous Film Distribution Ltd and Urucu Media Ltd will ask the court to review and set aside this X-rated classification. They are asking that if the court cannot review the classification during tomorrow’s urgent court proceedings, it must order that the film may be distributed as if it has been classified as 16 LS ( strong language and sexual conduct, not to be viewed by children under 16). The applicants said if the court was not agreeable to this, it could classify the film as 18 SLNVP for now. They want these alternative orders to remain in place pending an application to overturn the X-rating. Managing director of Indigenous Films, Helen Kuun, said in court papers that while Inxeba had provoked public discussion and controversy, and it was beyond question that it was a serious work of dramatic merit. The movie was selected by the National Film and Video Foundation as South Africa’s nomination for the 2018 Oscar for Best Foreign Language Film. It made the short list of nine films for the Oscars and won 20 awards in South Africa and globally. The Film and Publication Board classified it as 16 LS, which meant it could be screened in cinemas. However, seven months later the decision was overturned by the Appeal Tribunal, which classified it as X 18 SLNVP last month. It was immediately withdrawn from the public circuit. Kuun said the X-rating radically restricts the ability of even adults to view the film. “It means the film may never be viewed in cinemas, but only at licensed adult premises - sex shops”. As there are not many of these shops around, it could at best be sold via DVD at sex shops, she said. She said an X-rating is only given to films which are pornographic and intended to produce “erotic stimulation”. “To my knowledge no non-pornographic film has ever been given and an X 18 rating by the Board or Appeal Tribunal before." She suggested that the court view the film, so it could make up its own mind as to the classification. Kuun said the matter was urgent as the public could not view the film at this stage at cinemas. Apart from the film company losing money, it also infringed on the public’s right to see the film. “If the effect of the Appeal Tribunal’s decision is not speedily reversed, the bulk of the time and money spent on producing the film will have been wasted.” Inxeba is an international co-production between South Africa, Germany, the Netherlands and France. It explores themes of masculinity, tradition and homosexuality. It tells a story of a lonely factory worker who joins the men in his community in the mountains of the Eastern Cape to initiate a group of teenage boys into manhood. The Film and Publication Appeal Tribunal said it reclassified the film from a 16 age restriction to X 18 following complaints by cultural organisations, which among other things objected to the homosexuality depicted in the film and the violence and vulgar language used. The tribunal mostly gave reasons as to why it should not be classified as a 16 age restriction, but was silent on why it received an X-rating at the end. It said it acted in terms of the Films and Publications Board Act in doing so. The Films and Publication Board, which initially applied a 16 age restriction, is not opposing tomorrow’s application.