Zuma is facing 16 fraud and corruption charges, related to the controversial arms deal. “I confirm that the summons has been received and that we are preparing an application to review the NDPP (National Director of Public Prosecution)’s decision to prosecute,” said Hulley without providing further explanation. Hawks spokesperson Brigadier Hangwani Mulaudzi said a summons was also served on Zuma’s co-accused French arms company Thint “whose lawyers are in Cape Town”. With regard to opposing the summons, Mulaudzi said all the matters would be ventilated in court. “It is their (defence lawyers') job. On April 6 the accused will be formally charged,” he said. National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) head Shaun Abrahams earlier this month reinstated charges against Zuma. In 2009, then acting NPA boss Mokotedi Mpshe decided to drop the case against Zuma who was ANC president at the time. Mpshe's decision was found to be unlawful and irrational by both the Gauteng High Court, Pretoria, and the Appeal Court. This allowed prosecutions boss Abrahams to find that the case should go ahead. Zuma and French arms company Thint have both been served with a summons to appear in the Durban High Court and will therefore not be required to apply for bail. Thint allegedly paid Zuma R500000 to protect the company from any possible arms deal investigations. The State believes that the money was to be used to pay for Zuma’s Nkandla renovations. Meanwhile, KwaZulu-Natal church leaders, who support Zuma, said they would be at court to pray for him through his difficult time. The KwaZulu-Natal ANC Youth League has already revealed that it had started to mobilise various community and ANC structures to rally behind Zuma when he answers “politically motivated” charges of fraud and corruption. Now church leaders, provincial ANC Veterans Leagues (ANCVL) and the ANC in eThekwini have come out saying they will support Zuma in and outside court. Bishop Wellington Ngcobo, of the National Interfaith Council of South Africa, said members of about 500 affiliated Christian, Hindu, Muslim and African traditional religious groups across the country would be in court to support Zuma. Ngcobo said according to the council’s principle “we cannot turn against someone because he is being labelled a sinner”. “Even if he is found guilty, God does not turn against the sinner, he helps him to repent,” he said. Ngcobo described Zuma as the champion of ARVs, free education and radical economic transformation. “His achievements are not highlighted, but only those things that he had not been found guilty of are highlighted. “Msholozi, during apartheid, joined the likes of John Langalibalele Dube to fight injustice, and now we are looking at the impartiality of the judicial system,” he said. ANCVL provincial secretary Teresa Mthembu said the league would support Zuma in his “darkest hours”. “Come rain or shine we will support Msholozi to the end,” she said. ANC secretary-general Ace Magashule at the weekend gave instructions to Zuma supporters not to wear party regalia at court. However, Mthembu said they would go to court as members of the ANC and ANCVL. “We support Zuma because he is an ANC member. "He was the ANC president, he has not left the ANC,” she said.