The mother wept in court when the accused in a sexual and bestiality case was told he could spend the rest of his life behind bars if found guilty. The Pretoria News has elected not to identify the accused due to the nature of the offence and to protect the identity of the victim. The 45-year-old man is accused of raping his family’s domestic worker and then forcing her to have sex with two dogs. The case at the Bronkhorstspruit Magistrate’s Court was disrupted several times as emotional community members reacted while they listened to descriptions of the crime. ANC and EFF supporters displayed placards inside the courtroom. Magistrate David Shikwambane stopped court proceedings twice to warn both the accused and his elderly mother to contain their emotions. The mother cried disruptively when investigating officer Shane van Rooyen told the court what the accused allegedly did to the woman. The accused claimed to have been dating the victim. He swore at the investigating officer and was warned by Magistrate Shikwambane to refrain from swearing, even if he disagreed with the testimony. The man was also seen swearing at his father when Van Rooyen opposed his bail application. This was on the basis that his father had submitted an affidavit that mentioned nothing about the romantic relationship. Van Rooyen told the court that the woman was raped five times, and on each occasion, his parents had to go to the community park to “cool off” because they were afraid of him. “The woman was left with bruised feet because the accused kept on beating her with a piece of wood under her feet. "She also had bruises on her vagina and an open wound on her right thigh,” said Van Rooyen. The court heard how she managed to escaped at night after picking up a spray and spraying it in the suspect face. She ran outside with only a towel covering her body, with the assistance of the accused’s father. “The police heard from neighbours that they heard noises when the woman was crying and running around the premises. The neighbours thought it was the man fighting with his parents again as per normal.” Magistrate Shikwambane postponed the bail application to Thursday. He promised to deliver judgement on the day should time allow. ANC and EFF supporters said they would not be pleased if bail was granted. They believed this was a serious crime that also happened to be racially motivated. This was despite evidence that the accused had a black former wife, who had since died. EFF sub-regional convener Olivier Mogoru said: “Any bail granted would be a blow to justice in Bronkhorstspruit. "We would see there is clearly no consistency in cases where whites are the accused and blacks are victims. "We are not confident he will be denied bail.” ANC leader in the area Jabu Mabona said defence lawyer Hleketani Maluleke told the court the accused’s wife was black in an attempt to eliminate the narrative that the crime was racially motivated. “Over and above everything, rape is rape. It must be punished."We would not be happy if he is given bail after all the testimony heard in court today. "We want nothing but justice,” Mabona said.