The city kindergarten, of 126 children aged 3 months to 6 years, said those who had participated showed so much enthusiasm to collect paper that the competition organisers called them “outstanding” and said they were already making a great impact in the competition. The crèche’s secretary, Charlene Jaffter, said the excitement to collect the paper wasn’t only from the children but also from their parents. “It was our first year entering the competition and we came very close to winning, but this year we are definitely winning it, trust me,” she said. She said in fact, the achievement was already a win for them: “We are very happy, and we will be back with a bang because we managed to cause a great impact,” she said. Jaffter said Mpact representatives came to the school early last year to hand the children green bags, and they also had white bags for parents. “To encourage the rate of collecting paper, we had a competition with the children and parents, where whoever brought in more paper would get ice cream and that created much excitement,” she said. She said regular announcements on the parents' WhatsApp group about which learner was  leading created a heated contest. “What we wanted to encourage was for our learners to know that it’s wrong to litter, we have always told them that picking up paper is important in keeping the environment clean. “What we added to the fun was bringing parents in so that they could also learn the importance of picking up paper to recycle,” she said. Jaffter said the kindergarten’s aim was to collect more paper this year by roping in more parents, getting them to participate every week by putting up notices and posting a list of those collecting the high tonnages. “Last week one of our babies collected about 83kg of paper and I announced it to all of the parents on the WhatsApp group. This created a lot of competition and commotion in the group,” she laughed. They celebrated last year’s achievements by hiring jumping castles. Mpact Recycling hosts a School’s Recycling Competition annually, and 2017 was no exception as each school brought amazing tonnages, with some bringing in close to 30 tons. The recycling company decided to do things differently this year by not showcasing schools that won, but instead patting on the back all the unsung heroes who did not win the overall prize. Mpact Recycling communication manager Donna-Mari Noble said the competition encourages nursery schools, primary schools and high schools in Johannesburg, Pretoria, Midrand, Durban, Richards Bay and Cape Town to collect as much recyclable paper and packaging as possible. The competition runs from February to September every year and Snipper Kleuterskool promises to make the city proud. Prizes to the value of R20000 will be won by deserving schools.