Ramaphosa should also institute a state capture inquiry into the affairs of the Department of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries. The party made the calls as Zokwana denied reports that he received bribes from an abalone dealer. On Sunday, City Press reported that former president Jacob Zuma was being investigated by the Hawks for allegedly accepting a R1million cash bribe from a Western Cape abalone dealer in exchange for keeping Zokwana in his Cabinet. It also reported that businessman Chaile Seretse had in an affidavit alleged that Zokwana, Cosatu president Sdumo Dlamini and agriculture department deputy director-general Siphokazi Ndudane each received a R300000 bribe from the same businessman Deon Larry. The DA’s Beverley Schäfer said what was of most concern was the allegation that the trio received R300000 in bribes from Western Cape businessmen for facilitating talks with Zuma. “I call on President Cyril Ramaphosa to urgently launch a full inquiry into the clear state capture of the department, and to remove Minister Zokwana from his position immediately if he truly cares about cleaning up rampant corruption in the national government, as promised in his 2018 State of the Nation Address,” Schäfer said. “President Ramaphosa must 
also conduct a complete overhaul of the department following the arrest of nine departmental officials in connection with abalone poaching just this month,” Schäfer said. Zokwana’s spokesperson Bomikazi Molapo said the minister denied involvement in any unlawful conduct in awarding of contracts for processing and sale of confiscated abalone, or any plans to raise money for the ANC through his department. “The minister welcomes the investigation by the Directorate for Priority Crime Investigation into all the allegations contained in the article and is confident that the investigation will establish that the allegations made against him are unfounded, false, and defamatory,” Molapo said. Seretse was the chief operating officer of a company whose contract with the department for processing, marketing and selling confiscated abalone was declared unlawful and set aside by the Western Cape High Court on November 24, 2017, he said. “Investigations into the employees of the department who appear to be implicated in the awarding of the unlawful contract are still ongoing,” she said. Schäfer accused the department of clearly not caring about fulfilling its mandate, at a high cost to the fishermen and women robbed of jobs, and the Western Cape fishing communities ravaged by rampant abalone poaching. DA shadow minister for agriculture, forestry and fisheries Pieter van Dalen said the alleged bribe exposed the murky world of abalone poaching which has reached crisis levels, especially in the Western Cape. Van Dalen blamed the department for presiding over an opaque process of disposing of confiscated abalone. “The sale of confiscated abalone remains hidden from public scrutiny, creating opportunities for illegal trade in the sector,” he said. Van Dalen also said he would write to Zokwana asking him to commit to a firm plan to open the sale of confiscated abalone to public and Parliament scrutiny. “The DA believes that in order to stop criminality in the abalone sector, it is vital that an open and transparent system is instituted as a matter of urgency, starting with the sale of confiscated abalone.”