This after the Gauteng High Court, Pretoria, in a victory judgment for all South African citizens and those in other SADC countries, ruled former president Jacob Zuma acted irrationally and unconstitutionally when he took part in the dismantling of the SADC Tribunal. It was found Zuma couldn't suspend the tribunal without first consulting Parliament, as the original SADC Treaty was binding on South Africa. In 2011, Zuma participated in a decision of the SADC Summit to  suspend the tribunal. In 2014 he signed a protocol to limit the tribunal's jurisdiction to only hear cases between member states. This meant individuals could no longer turn to the tribunal regarding their grievances against states, such as human rights violations. But in a groundbreaking judgment, a full Bench (three judges) yesterday declared Zuma’s participation in suspending the SADC Tribunal and his subsequent signing of the 2014 Protocol unlawful. This did not mean the tribunal was up and running again. But it did mean that South Africa's vote would not be added to those of the other SADC countries that were in favour of limiting the tribunal's jurisdiction, said Thipe Mothle, lawyer acting for the Law Society of South Africa. This was a step in the right direction to ensure the tribunal was back on track, Mothle said. It was now a wait and see situation, as several other SADC countries in a similar position were launching similar legal proceedings in their countries. The protocol is not yet binding, as it has not been ratified by enough SADC member states. AfriForum lawyer Willie Spies, who represented the Zimbabwean farmers, said the ball was now in the court of the South African government to decide the way forward. “We have a new president and virtually a new dispensation and the ball is now in their hands to undo the wrong,” he said. The Law Society and several other parties challenged the role Zuma and the government played in the closure of the SADC Tribunal. Four commercial farmers who were dispossessed of their farms under Mugabe, joined the legal 
challenge. It was earlier argued that the outcome of this legal challenge would not only have great significance for all South Africans, but also for the citizens of other SADC countries. An estimated 230million people will be affected. Unlike the previous protocol, the 2014 Protocol deprives citizens in the SADC region - including  South Africans - of the right to refer a dispute between them and their government to a regional court if they fail to find relief in their own courts. The applicants said that by signing the 2014 Protocol, the president infringed on the right of South African citizens to access justice. The SADC Tribunal was set up in 2005 to resolve disputes involving southern Africa states and their citizens. But only a few cases were heard by the tribunal, including that of the aggrieved Zimbabwean farmers. In 2009 Zimbabwe challenged the legitimacy of the tribunal on the basis that it had not been established according to international law norms. This came after the tribunal criticised Zimbabwe’s land reform and ruled the Zimbabwe government must restore the land of the farmers who had turned to the tribunal. It was also ruled Zimbabwe had to compensate them for their loss. Judge President Dunstan Mlambo said Zuma’s signature on the protocol undermined a crucial SADC institution, the tribunal. South Africa remained bound by the SADC Treaty. If it wanted to withdraw, consent of Parliament had to be obtained first, he said. “Failure to do so is unlawful."