Moreover, some schools  had been trying to make do without teachers for priority subjects, such as mathematics and science. This emerged during an oversight visit to Phuthaditshaba Primary and Phelindaba Secondary schools, in Atteridgeville, by DA MPL and spokesperson on education in the province, Khume Ramulifho. His mission was to see how learning and teaching had been proceeding in the schools since the beginning of the year. Phuthaditshaba Primary also had issues, particularly with overcrowding, potholes in classrooms and mobile classes falling apart. According to some officials, schools in the area were literally besieged by crime every other week. There were classes with small whiteboards, no bigger than a standard school desk. Ramulifho said some of the challenges at the two schools had become a common feature in many schools across the province. Following the visits and consultations with education stakeholders, he was of the view that only a few schools were being paraded as schools of the future and as symbols that all was well, when in truth the education system was in dire straits. “From our visits we are getting the picture that our education system is in a crisis and not what we are being told. When you go to a number of schools there are numerous challenges educators and pupils have to contend with, but nothing is being said of that.” Part of the problem, he said, was the result that schools were being left to deteriorate while the budget for infrastructure, renovations and maintenance was not being utilised. It was important for communities to be roped in to ward off criminals attacking school resources, but it was also up to the department to ensure material was replaced as quickly as possible, he said. “We support new innovative ideas but we also need to put security measures in place to safeguard those gadgets, to ensure pupils are not disadvantaged in the end. “We need to fix these schools before they fall apart completely, as we will not have a budget to build them up from the beginning again.” Ramulifho said the findings, and his recommendations, would be forwarded to ducation MEC Panyaza Lesufi.