Steve Smith, David Warner and Cameron Bancroft were thrown out of the Australian squad this week, and left the country yesterday. Smith and Warner, captain and vice-captain, were banned from playing for their country and state for 12 months, while Bancroft, the most inexperienced of the three, was banned for nine months. In addition, Smith won’t be considered for the position of captain for a period of two years, while Warner will not be considered for team leadership positions in the future at all. All three will be allowed to play club cricket, while Cricket Australia also stated that the trio would be “required to undertake 100 hours of voluntary service in community cricket”. Smith and Bancroft faced five charges under Cricket Australia’s Code of Conduct, while Warner faced eight charges. The trio have seven days to appeal the sanctions. Cricket Australia’s chief executive James Sutherland admitted that the element used to tamper with the ball during the third day of the Test at Newlands was sandpaper and not tape. The sandpaper is supposed to be used for the players’ bats. Cricket Australia’s investigation found that Warner concocted the plan, and then instructed a junior player (Bancroft) to carry it out. Warner was also charged with providing advice to a junior player “regarding how a ball could be artificially altered including demonstrating how it could be done”, and then with lying to match officials about his role in developing the plan, and his role in it. Smith and Bancroft were also charged with misleading the match officials on the field when they tried to conceal the tampering. The pair, when they addressed the media in Cape Town on Saturday evening, also weren’t forthcoming with the whole truth, even though they were praised in many circles for fronting up when they were caught out. “There was an element of courage of taking on the point and owning up to what happened; there was also unfortunately an element of mistruth in that process. And that was taken into consideration by the board, when determining the sanctions,” said Sutherland. After failing to do so on Tuesday, when he first announced that the three would be sanctioned, Sutherland eventually conceded yesterday that what Warner, Smith and Bancroft did in Cape Town amounted to cheating. “Under the code, that specifically refers to these practices in which we have made the charges (the word) cheating is appropriate in the circumstances,” he said. In addition, the role of Darren Lehmann was also clarified, with Sutherland explaining that the television footage that shows the Australian coach speaking into a walkie-talkie as the incident unfolds, was not Lehmann warning the players. “In his defence he sent out a message to say ‘What in the hell is going on here’, but he didn’t use the word ‘hell’, he used a different word.” Sutherland said Iain Roy, the head of CA’s Integrity Unit, who has been conducting the inquiry into the scandal, told him he was satisfied that Lehmann had nothing to do with the incident. Proteas star Hashim Amla said he had a lot of sympathy for what the Australian players were going through. “We feel sympathetic towards a person who has made a mistake and has to pay the price for it,” said Amla. See Page 12 and Sport