The Department of Public Works Career Expo visited the school to guide the pupils on the direction to take when they complete their matric and enrol for tertiary education. Representatives from various tertiary institutions, as well as exhibitions by various organisations and different institutions, engaged and interacted with learners to highlight the significance of the expo for young people's exposure to existing career options. Calculator distributor Seartec provided pupils with new insights on how to use scientific calculators. Product manager Tal Moore said: “Today we showed pupils new ways in which they could use scientific calculators. We also donated 40 scientific calculators to the school, so they have a platform where they can learn. Pupils who don't have calculators struggle in their exams, but now they will have an advantage.” She said it was worth showing them why they needed a calculator, and their response was amazing as they learnt new techniques to use during exams. The department’s stall had on show various career opportunities, from project managers to quantity surveyors, to showcase different aspects of careers to motivate pupils. Construction project manager Nkululeko Mncwanya said the expo was a great initiative which would give an idea about what pupils could do after matric. “Some learners in high school don't know which career path to follow. They realise at a later stage it was the wrong choice,” he said. Keletso Mokagane, 17, said the Department of Higher Education’s Khetha programme, which assisted young people with making the right decisions with their future, had grabbed his attention. The Grade 10 learner said he was given advice on choosing his subjects properly, not because his friends were doing it but because of his strengths. “I expected to be judged by the subjects I chose, but when I got here I was advised to focus on my strengths. I was guided by Khetha to choose carefully which course to enrol for,” he said. Tshepo Phooko, 16, said he learnt amazing new techniques on how to use his scientific calculator. He is passionate about maths and gained a lot of knowledge about alternative interesting careers. Palesa Ndlovu, in Grade 9, said: “I came here knowing exactly which stall I wanted to visit. I want to be an accountant and I was referred to the relevant people.”