Following the strike, 99 A Re Yeng bus drivers were dismissed. In addition, a bus was set alight outside the Steve Biko Hospital. Alphius Mohlabane, 36, of Hammanskraal, and Solomon Choma, 41, of Phomolong pleaded not guilty to all the charges in the Gauteng High Court, Pretoria, yesterday. The State claim they were upset at being fired and that the pair conspired to set the bus alight to take revenge on their former employer, Tshwane Rapid Transit, a City of Tshwane entity. Two of their co-accused, who were also bus drivers, Vusi Mashiane and Whity Ntali, were yesterday discharged by Judge Bert Bam after it couldn't be proved that they had anything to do with the torching of the bus, although they were also on the scene at the time. The bus nearly burnt out on October 5, 2016, while it was parked close to the hospital. CCTV footage screened in court showed a woman - Daisy Makeke - enter the bus and throwing a bucket containing petrol inside. The bus nearly immediately burst into flames. Makeke, who was also a fired bus driver, caught fire and died at the scene. The footage also depicted Mohlabane, Choma, Mashiane and Ntali next to the bus. It further showed Mohlabane and Choma talking to each other and to Makeke outside the bus. Both Mohlabane and Choma entered the bus at one stage. The footage showed Mohlabane tapping a female commuter on the shoulder and her leaving the bus with him, seconds before it went up in flames. Prosecutor Andre Fourie told Mohlabane that this was to alert her to leave the bus, as he knew what was coming. But Mohlabane said he merely greeted her by tapping her on the shoulder. Both accused said it was purely coincidence that they, the dead bus driver and their two other fired colleagues, were on the scene at the same time. Mohlabane said he was on his way to Hamilton Street and Choma said he was on his way to Marabastad. Commuter Sebola Kgaugelo, a student at Unisa, was sitting in the bus reading when she suddenly saw a woman dousing it with petrol. She jumped out as it went up in flames. She told the court she was severely burnt across her face and arms. Mohlabane was seen on the video footage carrying a black bucket similar to the bucket Makeke had used to douse the bus. But Mohlabane said he carried a dirty oil filter in the bucket as he was on his way to buy a new one. He vehemently denied he had anything to do with the incident. Choma testified that he went to visit a friend in Gezina. He said he was a member of the ZCC and was on his way to Marabastad to buy “holy tea”. TRT chief executive Sam Mathebane testified that 99 bus drivers were given the boot during June and July 2016 for taking part in illegal strikes. He said he knew the accused and they were among the dismissed bus drivers. As he had received a lot of threats during that time that the buses would be damaged, he organised that guards drive in a car alongside them to safeguard commuters. On that day, he said, the guards were about 200m from the bus when it went up in flames. He estimated the value of the bus at about R3.9million.