This was the evidence of Professor Ryan Blumenthal, a pathologist who took the stand in the Gauteng High Court, Pretoria, yesterday during the trial of Dreyer’s four alleged killers. Dreyer was allegedly murdered in his Villieria home during the 2016 Easter weekend. His body was thrown into a manhole in the yard of a house in Capital Park. It was only retrieved several days later. The elderly Dreyer’s former lover, Estelle Reddy, 36, Gerhardus Papenfus, 42, Kevin Johnson (also known as Zulu), 31, and Ruvan Furst (known as Malak), 42, all pleaded not guilty to murder and other charges. Reddy, in a police statement after her arrest, explained how Dreyer’s body was covered in caustic soda after the killing. The chemicals were also thrown down the manhole where his body had been dumped. She said her co-accused, Papenfus, whom she described as a “gangster” said the chemicals would dissolve the body - even the teeth. Blumenthal said some of the substance rubbed off on his finger during the post mortem and it had burnt him. It is claimed Dreyer was beaten to death in his home and then dumped in the backyard of a house in Capital Park belonging to the mother of Papenfus. Blumenthal testified that the entire right side of Dreyer’s chest was fractured. He counted six severe rib fractures and three rib fractures on the left. The expert described these fractures as severe, and said it must have been caused by severe blunt force trauma. The defence suggested that the fractures were caused after death when Dreyer’s body was thrown head first into the manhole. It was also suggested they could have been caused when the body was later retrieved by hoisting it out of the manhole. But Blumenthal was adamant that while this was possible, it was highly unlikely given the severity of the fractures. The manhole was only 2m deep, he said, thus not enough to have caused these injuries. The injuries were more compatible with someone falling about 9m down a hole, he said. The defence also suggested that Dreyer had died of natural causes, such as a heart attack, before his body was dumped. Blumenthal said he couldn't find anything during his post-mortem to suggest this. Reddy, who turned herself in to police about  a week after the killing, said she had met Papenfus via a friend, and he told her he wanted to get out of the “gangster trade” and start a lawful business. They agreed to go into business together, but he told her he urgently needed some money. She told him to ask Dreyer for some money, but Dreyer refused. About a week before the alleged killing Papenfus told Reddy he felt like returning to gangsterism where he “robbed people, sold drugs and even killed to get money”. Reddy testified she had to go to an engagement party in Laudium over the Easter weekend and Dreyer lent her his car. Papenfus, however, offered to drop her off, saying he wanted to use Dreyer’s car that night. “He said he had things to do. I asked him not to rob Danie because if something went wrong, I would not have a job or a place to stay.” Reddy said Papenfus phoned her the next morning and asked for Dreyer’s bank account pin code. “I gave it to him because I was afraid he would torture Danie.” Papenfus later fetched her from the party in Dreyer’s car. Both Zulu and Malak were in the car. “I asked him how the job went. He answered that Danie ‘had moved’ - that he was dead. He said it was an accident as Danie got a heart attack or something during the altercation."