Margareth Malatshi had no idea whether she was going to be robbed, raped or killed and carried on driving until she found a petrol station, where she stopped. Her caution resulted in her arrest on a charge of reckless and negligent driving. Nothing ever came of the charge, but the 33-year-old had to spend 13 hours in a “filthy” Sunnyside police station cell. The police’s conduct will now cost the taxpayer R500000. Malatshi instituted a R750000 damages claim against the police in the Gauteng High Court, Pretoria. While the police were adamant in defending the claim, they did not file any opposing papers and never pitched at court. Malatshi, who works in the catering industry, said in papers before court she and her sister were returning from the hospital at about 3am on July 3, 2013. They were driving along Nelson Mandela Drive and approached a very dark stretch of the road near Unisa, when a police van stopped next to them at a red traffic light. Malatshi said that although it was a police vehicle, the occupants were dressed in civilian clothes. When the traffic light turned green, she drove off. The van followed her and flicked its lights, indicating she should stop. But Malatshi drove on and skipped several traffic lghts as she feared for the safety of her and her sister’s lives. She drove to the the nearest safe place - a petrol station - where she stopped. She got out of the car and was met by the men inside the police vehicle, who told her they were police officers. Malatshi said they were pointing guns at her and she was terrified. She tried to explain to them that she feared for her safety, and had intended to stop at a safe place, but they did not listen. She was arrested and taken to the police station, where she was locked up until late the next day, when she was told she could go home. The court was told Malatshi had been left severely traumatised as she was locked up with criminals and prostitutes under harrowing circumstances “for nothing”. She claimed damages for humiliation, emotional shock and stress as well as for deprivation of her liberty. Acting Judge John Holland-Muter ruled R500000 in damages was a fair amount.