Last year, 235 people died on South African roads over this busy weekend, in a 51% increase over the previous year’s figure of 156. MMC for roads and transport Sheila Lynn Senkubuge said the Tshwane and the metro police department were ready to safeguard Easter holidays and had been preparing for the moment for some time. “Last Easter we had nine fatalities and this time we are aiming for none. The metro police officers are already enforcing the law and will maximise their presence across the roads of the city,” Senkubuge said. “We believe one life lost is one life too many. We cannot lose people to avoidable incidents and accidents. I urge all motorists to obey all the rules of the roads and remember to stay safe.” Senkubuge wished all travellers safe trips and encouraged them to not only consider their own safety, but that of other travellers, including pedestrians. Major highways leading out of Pretoria and Joburg are again expected to experience heavy traffic volumes. Members of the Zion Christian Church making their annual pilgrimage to Moria in Limpopo, add to the road congestion. Nonetheless, traffic authorities said they were ready for the huge traffic volumes expected to start today. Some of the roads that are expected to be busy during the long weekend include the N1 to Polokwane, the N4 to Nelspruit and the N3 to Durban. These will be the big focus for law enforcement agents this weekend, according to the Road Traffic Management Corporation spokesperson Simon Zwane. He urged motorists to obey the rules of the road and not drink and drive. SAPS provincial spokesperson Colonel Lungelo Dlamini said there would be crime-prevention operations by all law enforcement agencies. He said that would include roadblocks on major routes, stop-and-search operations, as well as raids on liquor outlets. “At station level, normal policing activities will continue,” he said. Long queues started building up yesterday morning at various long distance taxi ranks and bus stations. This was as travellers wanted to beat today and tomorrow’s huge anticipated traffic volumes. Several buses carrying passengers from other provinces dropped them off at the Bosman Station. Those travelling across the South African border brought large pieces of luggage like wardrobes, couches, floor tiles, beds and kitchen and dining room units. Consumable items that are cheaper in South Africa than in neighbouring countries - like energy drinks, bags of rice, baking powder, washing soap and bottles of cooking oil - were piled high among the luggage heading for those countries. By afternoon, some families could still be seen lifting heavy bags on their shoulders and on top of their heads in the bustling Marabastad taxi and bus stations. Zimbabwean couple Simon and Melga Ncube said they travelled from Bosman to Harare in a bus every Easter. They planned to spend the long weekend with their families in Zaka Village and were ready for the long trip. The wish of Chris Phasha, who was heading to Middleburg, was that all South Africans would obey the rules of the road. This, he said, would mean fewer stop-and-search police roadblocks along major roads. Maputo-bound Mike Dube said he preferred to travel from Pretoria by bus because it was safer than cars and taxis. He said he usually left his car at his Atteridgeville home because he feared getting into a potentially fatal accident on the Easter roads. ADT executive manager Stuart Clarkson said: “We often see a spate of opportunistic crime over the Easter holiday period. These crimes are not always traditional house break-ins while residents are away, but also include driveway hijackings and robberies and break-ins while owners are entertaining guests or sleeping.” Clarkson advised residents to cut trees that created easy access to properties, inform neighbours to keep an eye on their homes, hire house-sitters, double-check that all windows and doors were locked, and switch off geysers and electronic appliances to save electricity. See Page 2 and 5