The majority of advertisements during the 10 sporting events most watched by viewers aged 2 to 17 featured products that are unhealthy, according to research published on Monday in the health journal Paediatrics. Sports featuring athletes required to be at the height of their physical prowess accompanied by commercial breaks pushing junk food (and sometimes including the best athletes as the pitchers) inspired lead researcher Marie Bragg, assistant professor in the Department of Population Health at New York University School of Medicine, to dig into the topic. “The idea that we would watch these really physically fit athletes perform these amazing physical feats and then go to a commercial break and see ads for chips and fried chicken and sugary beverages the contradiction in there was just so striking to me that we wanted to get a sense of really, what does the landscape actually look like,” she said in a phone interview. In the study, Sports Sponsorships of Food and Non-alcoholic Beverages, the researchers evaluated the quality of foods and drinks using the Nutrient Profile Model, a system used to identify products that can be advertised to children in Britain and Australia. The study used Nielsen audience data for televised sports events in 2015. PepsiCo agreed in 2011 to pay $90million a year during a 10-year sponsorship renewal with the National Football League, according to the study, and Coca-Cola and McDonald’s spent about $20m each to sponsor the Olympics. The ads may send confusing signals to children and adults watching sports, Bragg said. The next research step needed is to look into whether kids eat more of the unhealthy products if they see them in ads during sporting events. “It sort of sends the message to people that physical fitness is important, or sports is part of this country’s landscape, and that junk food fits right in there,” she said. “That mixed message, I think, is problematic for diseases like obesity and diabetes, especially among young people watching these programmes.” Chips and soft drinks have long been standards in sports ads. But the firms behind them have increasingly come under fire for the nutritional properties of their products and their impact on children. Eighteen companies including Coca-Cola, Pepsi and McDonald’s have signed a pledge as part of the Children’s Food and Beverage Advertising Initiative to refrain from pushing unhealthy products to children under 12. Ten are sponsors of at least one sports body, according to the study. Sports leagues have acknowledged their sway over kids by creating initiatives, such as the NFL’s Play 60 programme, through which the league has committed more than $350m to youth health and fitness. Other leagues have done the same. The costly nature of sports sponsorships shows companies believe the ads are worth it. - The Washington Post