For those in attendance, the fact that Cape Town City got knocked out by Mozambican side Costa do Sol in the CAF Confederations Cup was incidental. Everybody, however, will remember that  the show was ugly and depressing. The Ethiopian match officials were the main culprits, in that they failed to stamp their authority on the game. Costa do Sol had come with a physical, aggressive attitude and, with the referee offering City no protection, they responded in kind. For example, City’s Thabo Nodada was left prone after a horror challenge, with blood streaming from a gash on his lower jaw; the Capetonians reacted with defender Taariq Fielies flying into a scything challenge on opposition winger Terence Tisdell - the tackle was so high, so cruel, that if he had made full contact, he would certainly have broken the player’s leg. But no free-kick was given, no yellow card or red card shown, nothing, nada, zilch  and that was the way it continued all afternoon. As a result, the frustration spilled over onto the two benches, where, again, this time the Ethiopian fourth match official, had no control of proceedings. The two opposing coaching members had a right go at each other, with regular scuffles and all manner of disconcerting finger-pointing, insults and threats hurled at each other. City coach Benni McCarthy didn’t want to go into too much detail around the events, but did say he had no choice but to get involved. Costa do Sol coach Fabio Costas is Argentinian, and the technical director Arturo Faria is Portuguese; McCarthy speaks both Spanish and Portuguese. And with the Mozambican players being urged to “kick him” and “break him” every time City had the ball, McCarthy had a full go at the opposition coaches for their unprofessional attitude. “This was Sunday league, gangster football,” said McCarthy afterwards. “It was physical and intimidating. It’s a pity we can’t go further, but, to be honest, I think it’s a blessing in disguise that we are out of the competition. "The sad part of it all was that there was more happening on the outside than actual football being played. "In my professional career, I have never been involved in a game like this. The referee just had no control. If this was a PSL match, Costa do Sol would have had two or three players sent off in the first half already. I tell you, I was scared of losing players to injury for the rest of the season because of how dangerously the opposition was flying into tackles.” McCarthy again rotated the squad for the CAF competition, with many of the team’s regulars watching from the comfort of the VIP box. “Overall, though, it was a good experience, a learning curve, and we will now know what to expect if we should make it into a CAF competition again.” For Costa do Sol, assistant-coach Dardo Valenzuela spoke afterwards and he reserved his comments for his team’s victory. “It was justice that we won,” he said. “City got an off-side goal in the first leg. But we knew we had the quality, we knew we could change things, and we knew we were the better team. This club has always had the heart of a lion - it was sleeping before, but now it is waking up.”