The event was held to honour the Struggle heroine and wife of ANC stalwart Walter Sisulu ahead of International Women’s Day tomorrow. Those present heard tales about her life from her grandchildren. She would have turned 100 in October this year, celebrating her centenary during the same year as Nelson Mandela. The day is an opportunity for citizens of the world to conduct introspection with regards to women’s accomplishments and challenges. “Every time we were at our granny’s place, you would wake to a huge pot full of porridge and there was one big steel kettle which would have ready-made tea enough for everyone. When it was dinner time, she would dish up for 14 plates - enough for everyone, but if somebody came to visit during dinner time, she would tell us to cut our meat and share so everyone could eat,” her grandchild Ntsiki Sisulu said. “That was our gogo; she was more than just our grandmother but our mother too,” she told the crowd of elderly women from townships around Gauteng, current and former women cabinet ministers in the Arts and Culture Department, global icon Esther Mahlangu, and other of Mama Sisulu’s grandchildren. Muvhango actress Maumela Mahuwa, who plays the role of Susan Mukwevho, also attended. In some countries, the day is a national holiday. South Africa has celebrated it over the years, especially post-1994. This year it will be celebrated under the theme: #PressforProgress. Having have raised her siblings from the age of 15, Mama Sisulu was described as a unifying leader and mother of the nation by Ntsiki, who was accompanied by her brother Duma Sisulu. “She was a mother, she served beyond her dedication to her profession as a nurse. She lived and actually outlived all her siblings, she not only raised them, but she buried them all. “In the meantime she made sure she had five of her own children raised. She raised us as grandchildren. She was indeed more than just our grandmother but our mother too. She displayed great courage and determination and was a unifying leader in her community,” Ntsiki added. Mama Sisulu died in 2011 in her home in Linden, Joburg, aged 92. Yesterday’s event was also used to embolden women to make use of opportunities available so that they too could change the world. The Deputy Minister of Arts and Culture Maggie Sotyu, who was the keynote speaker, said a lot needed to be done to ensure women understood their rights, adding they were afraid of speaking out against abuse. Encouraging women to take charge, Sotyu said patriarchy was still a huge issue in the country: “For South Africa, International Women’s Day falls within the Human Rights Month; therefore it becomes critical that we focus on general human and women's rights. “Women must learn to talk because some crimes are happening behind closed doors but we don’t talk. “Women still need to be empowered to understand and access their rights. Us as mothers and women, we still don’t know our rights and we still listen to whatever our men say.” The response to the speakers was one of acknowledgement, and participants vowed to take the advice, of taking their rights back.