RAPULA MOATSHE Politics lecturer at the University of Pretoria, Sithembile Mbethe, has questioned why stories written by female journalists tended to feature more voices of men, while they overlooked the contributions from women. She spoke at an event in Hatfield, where the GCIS hosted a discussion about the centenary celebration of the late freedom fighter Albertina Sisulu's legacy. Mthebe was one of the panelists, who talked about the lessons that can be drawn from the sacrifices Sisulu made in her lifetime. She touched on the role of women in the media industry by referring to the study conducted by the Global Media Monitoring Project in 2010 about the presence of women in the media. According to the study, Mbethe said, the media continued to portray women as ordinary people and males as experts.
Very often women featured in stories were also protrayed as victims, according to the study. Mbethe said:"Our news in the media is still heavily male focused. If you think of news in print, radio and television, the four main areas that get spoken about are sports, the economy, crime and politics. And in all of those areas women are represented the least." She also referred to the work done by Media Monitoring Africa, which monitored the media coverage of the 2016 municipal elections.
In terms of the study, the voices of women were in most cases excluded in the media publications. The study showed that of the top ten politicians quoted in the media during the elections, only three were women. One of the women was Thoko Didiza for her role in relation to violent protests, which erupted after she was announced as the ANC mayoral candidate in the City of Tshwane. "Eighty-five percent of the politicians reported about by the media were men and only 15 % were women in those elections," she said. Mbethe wanted to know why were women's voices not being heard even if in some cases where those who produced the news were women. "Women are silenced in our media. If you read news media, listen to radio and watch television you would really think that the proportion of men in South Africa is 80% and women 20% because our voices and stories are not being heard," she said.