Today, at 37 Molebatsi is a renowned writer and performance poet, and a pan-African cultural worker who has had the honour of performing alongside the likes of Kenyan writer Ngg wa Thiong’o, one of the highlights of her career. Upon meeting her, one is instantly struck by Molebatsi’s passion for and living of culture - from her natural look and the way she is dressed. Molebatsi was born and raised in Tembisa, but now lives in Tshwane. Aside from her performance work, she is a workshop facilitator and programme director who has presented shows such as An Evening with Alice Walker (Walker is the US author of The Color Purple) and the Urban Voices International Spoken Word Festival. She has edited a collection of poems entitled We Are A Poetry Anthology, authored Sardo Dance and is a founder member of the South African/Italian jazz-soul band “Soul Making”. Her academic work has appeared in Scrutiny2, Rhodes Journalism Review and Muziki, among others. Molebatsi said she realised she had a voice. “Black women had been silenced; the generation of my mother silenced by patriarchy, colonialism, racism, apartheid. “I speak against these things, and I felt it was important that I used my voice.” She said she believed in women and young people as that was where change came from. “I believe in young people of this country because I believe that that’s where change comes from. “I believe in women, every single woman everywhere in the world. I believe that women are change-makers,” she said. Molebatsi has performed poetry and facilitated creative writing workshops internationally, including at universities and festivals in Nigeria, Senegal, Kenya, Zimbabwe, England, Italy, Azerbaijan, Argentina, Palestine and Germany. On her career highlights, she said performing at the London Olympics in 2012 was one, as was performing at the festival of Black Arts and Culture in Senegal with people like Thandiswa Mazwai. “Performing at the University of California with (Kenyan writer) Ngugi wa Thiong’o or (Ethiopian musician) Mulatu Astatke also, speaking to young people in high schools; that’s always a highlight every time,” Molebatsi said. The city’s landscape was what drew her to move to Pretoria in 1998 when she studied International Communications at the Tshwane University of Technology. “I love the landscape, the view at night. Because Pretoria is in a valley, the slopes are absolutely beautiful, also who wouldn’t love the site of the trees in the city?” she said. Molebatsi has a 10-year-old daughter whom she said she believed was a future maker just like all the other girls out there. She loves to read to her and introduce her to music, movies and the theatre. She reads extensively: “I am reading Nwelezelanga:The Star Child novel by Unathi Magubeni with my daughter actually because I like engaging her. There is also another one I’m reading because I often don’t read one book at a time. “I force her to read to me, until she likes a book.” The poet also reads a lot of academic literature around the representation of women in the media. She loves and supports local authors and poets. “I like Koleka Putuma she’s everyone’s favourite author right now. Her politics are so layered, they are speaking about black people, black women, so I love her, and I think she is a marvellous voice that we all need at this time.” “I like the work of Sisonke Msimang, and I love the work of Pumla Gqola.” Last year, she received an award for taking South African poetry beyond borders, adding that it was important for her work to be known widely. “This was an award that was given to me by the Word N Sound literature company because they feel that I have taken South African poetry beyond borders. I feel that it is important for our words and our messages to reach other parts of the world. Although she’s never scooped the Mboko Women in the Arts award, she has been nominated twice. “I was nominated twice for the Mbokodo Women in the Arts, and Unisa gave me a woman of the year award recently. Asked if she thought there was future for African literature, she confidently said it was the future. “African literature is the future because if you look at the work of Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie, her book has been turned into a movie, so we are the future of literature because our work is wide.”