THE newly-formed African Renaissance Unity (ARU) political party would give the ANC a run for its money in the upcoming 2019 general elections, its president Brayce Mthimkhulu said yesterday. Mthimkhulu, who is the King of the amaHlubi nation in KwaZulu-Natal, made the undertaking during the launch of the party in Centurion. “We are giving power back to the people. This is a great day. We are a government in waiting,” he said. He flatly refused to disclose the identity of those who would bankroll his party's election campaign, but was confident it would contest in all provinces. The party leadership was made up of traditional chiefs, and their term of office would be five years. Mthimkhulu said the amaHlubi nation had been around since the 1300s, but was destroyed in the 1800s, he said. “We did, however, resuscitate the Hlubi nation. However, this has nothing to do with the Hlubi but everything with liberating the people of South Africa.” As for what his party stood for, he said: “This is a newly-formed party; not a breakaway party. It is a new party for chiefs and kings and people of South Africa, blacks, whites, coloureds and Indians. They must all vote for this party. They are going to get lots of benefits in terms of reducing unemployment. We will also build schools, malls, clinics, infrastructure and make sure  elderly people are taken care of.” The political formation had received the blessings from the Congress of Traditional Leaders of South Africa, he said. He was already in touch with overseas investors to roll out projects to create jobs. “We've already started to engage with people from overseas to bring some projects to South Africa so we can reduce unemployment at least by 70%." He expressed disappointment that most people, especially pensioners, still went to bed without food. “Our elders in the rural areas are only getting R1600. We, as ARU, will double pay the elderly. We will  provide a voucher for groceries of not less than R2000. That is how we will fight poverty." The party would also provide free tertiary education to every child and root out corruption, Mthimkhulu said.