The main stakeholder in the initiative, the University of Pretoria, walked away with a winner’s prize in the sub-category, Building Safe Communities. The university was recognised for its role in the urban renewal and social transformation project around its Hatfield Campus. The award recognises projects that strive to mobilise against drugs, eradicate violence against women and children, and build safe 
communities. Dr Johnny Coetzee, project leader and senior lecturer at the university’s department of town and regional planning, said the project objective was to develop a precinct plan, implementation strategy and action plan for a newly-defined Hatfield Campus Village and City Improvement District (CID). The CID is a non-profit organisation funded by the 26 property owners within the area responsible for urban security and safety, cleaning and maintenance and urban management. “If we want to turn around and regenerate cities and communities and build quality, sustainable, and resilient places and spaces, we need to work together across disciplines and organisations to ensure we are supporting strong and vibrant communities,” Coetzee said. Project spokesperson Professor Denver Hendricks said that in recent years the Hatfield area started experiencing social decay, leading to the establishing of the CID to deal with cleaning and safety. He said the university and the CID appointed Enterprises University of Pretoria - the university’s external research and continuing education entity - in 2016 to research, analyse and assess the situation. Enterprises University of Pretoria’s Hendricks said: “The stakeholders were motivated to do something about the decay in physical infrastructure and social economies around the University of Pretoria campus in Hatfield.” He said the university community was concerned that social challenges, which included homelessness and drug abuse, were getting out of hand. “We told ourselves that we needed to get involved in doing something that would impact on the university and the homeless living in the surrounds,” he said. He added the university worked in conjunction with the City of Tshwane, Hatfield CID and Brooklyn police station. “We focus on cleaning and securing the area and beautifying it,” he said. Stakeholders, according to Hendricks, were driven by the need to build an inclusive environment for all. “We have our own cleaning team and they work together as a community,” he said. He expressed the wish to implement the same model in other parts of the city, such as the University of South Africa and Sefako Makgatho Health Sciences University. “We have recently started doing the same thing at the University of Pretoria campus in Mamelodi." About the award, Hendricks said: “The recognition means a lot to us. It means that the people are taking notice of what we do. This award is inspirational. There are aspirations to take the project further.” He added that the initiative had drawn funding from the Kresge Foundation in the US and the US State Department, through the US Embassy in Pretoria. Premier David Makhura said the purpose of the ceremony was to showcase the ability of people in Gauteng to dream big. “We want the awards to showcase dreamers in all sectors - dreamers in public service. We want to see dreamers in civil society and dreamers in business. Our province is a province of dreamers. “Anybody from any part of the world or the country who is in Gauteng has a dream; they are pursuing a dream. They are not here to pursue a nightmare. So, if you are a public servant who wants people to live in nightmares, you don’t belong in  Gauteng; please go somewhere else, as this is the province of dreams,” Makhura said. He added that the initiative recognised, encouraged and rewarded outstanding service delivery efforts in the Gauteng City Region. The awards recipients were from various sectors of society and were recognised in categories of social transformation, economic growth, clean governance, innovation, sustainable development and celebrated individuals.