Nothing has been done since the tragedy - the fourth in the area in a year due to the illegal connections - and residents of the area also known as Marikana informal settlement this week said “we feel like we are waiting for manna from heaven to take us out of this mess”. The boy’s mother, Emelda Seanego, said she had sent him to a neighbour’s house. “On his way there he tripped on the wires. He tried to untangle his shoe and was electrocuted,” Seanego said. She was called to be scene by neighbours and found her son in a bad way. They rushed him to the clinic where he was declared dead. Seanego said the sudden death of  her second-born child had hit her hard. “He was a very clever child and I really expected good things from him as he grew up.” Residents of the area said they had been staying at the development for more than five years and had been begging for basic services. One resident said they lived in constant worry about whose child was next, as such incidents occurred quickly one after the other. He said many residents were forced to use the illegal connections because they had newborn babies in their households, and living without electricity was hard. City spokesperson Lindela Mashigo said the development was an informal settlement and thus was not formalised. He said no plans were in place for providing services. “The matter will be referred to the revenue protection section within the Utility Services Department to assist with the investigation of the alleged incident and the intervention to remove the illegal electricity connections,” he said. Last year, the residents of the area marched to the then Isivuno House municipal offices to submit a memorandum of demands, among them for electricity, water, schools and clinics. They also called for the development to be formalised. Their memorandum was accepted by the MMC for Human Settlements, Mandla Nkomo. However, nothing had been done since. Months later, a bitter feud erupted between homeowners and shack dwellers at Mahube Valley in Mamelodi. At the time, formal homeowners complained about the increase in their utility bills due to illegal connections by their informal settlement neighbours. Eskom also said last year that it had identified Winterveldt as another hotspot for power outages in the city. The power utility said this was due to transformers overloading because of illegal connections, electricity and cable theft.