Matjane has had a daughter, who is just over a year old, since the 2015 killings. She is due to be sentenced this week in the Gauteng High Court, Pretoria, on two charges of murder. The court earlier heard how 6-year-old Keyondre Matjane tried to fend off his mother’s bullets with his arms after she shot his 2-year-old brother, Alvero Matjane, in the front seat of her car. His body was found lying outside the car in a pool of blood. Police found the younger boy with his head slumped forward, and pathologists told the court little Alvero had suffered a single bullet wound to the side of his head. Keyondre was shot twice -  in the forehead and lower right arm - as he tried to protect himself from the hail of bullets fired by his mother. Both children were shot from the front, which meant their mother had faced them when she pulled the trigger. But Matjane said she had no recollection of shooting her children. While she did not deny pulling the trigger on the afternoon of April 17, she only had “snapshot memories” of what happened. She blamed over-the-counter medication for her temporary memory loss. Matjane, wife of well-known city psychologist Dr Maxwell Matjane, earlier pleaded not guilty to the double murder and said she dearly loved her children and would never willingly harm them. But Judge Hans Fabricius last year, in convicting Matjane, said that following evidence by expert witnesses, it was unlikely that she had shot her children as the result of the side-effects of medication. He convicted her of premeditated murder as she fetched the children from school on April 17, 2015, and drove them to a remote spot near Hammanskraal, where she shot them. He rejected her version of sane automatism, and said if this was so, she would have snapped out of it after shooting the first child. He said there was no explanation as to why she then shot the second child. Her advocate, Piet Pistorius, asked for the sentencing procedures to be postponed on Monday, as he wanted to approach another psychologist to consult with the woman and to draw up a report for the court, proving that she had diminished capacity at the time of the incident. This, he said, should serve as a mitigating factor. Pistorius said he was not happy with the report which was drawn up by the expert they had consulted recently. The State, in turn, said the defence could not “shop for the correct report”. Judge Fabricius said it would be helpful to the court if he could get reports from experts appointed by the State and the defence to assist him with the issue of diminished capacity. Pistorius, meanwhile, also said that at this point his client is not inclined to take the stand to testify in mitigation of sentence. Judge Fabricius asked whether the defence was aware of the Supreme Court of Appeal judgment regarding Oscar Pistorius; that court made an adverse finding as Pistorius did not take the court into his confidence before sentencing about why he fired the four shots which had killed his girlfriend, Reeva Steenkamp. The judge said it would perhaps be wise if Matjane again read his judgment of her and reflected on it. The trial was postponed to July 30. Pretoria News