Led by the EFF and with the police keeping watch, the disgruntled nurses, volunteers, chefs and cleaners chanted outside the centre. They said they had worked at the centre for more than 20 years with no contracts and were underpaid, among other things. Huis Davidtz manager Leonora Strydom said the EFF would be held accountable should there be any deaths. Strydom said they had asked volunteers to take on the duties of workers who were striking. “The EFF is here stopping volunteers who came to help us give food to the frail, elderly people. "If these people die I will hold them accountable because they stopped them from giving these people food,” she said, and refused to comment further. Braving the heat, the workers vowed to stay put until they had solid proof that they would sign contracts. They also vowed not to go back to work until their demands had been met. Shop steward Martha Morake said: “I have been working here for years and the salary that I’m getting is R1800 a month. There are some who have been working here for more than 40 years, but still earn R2800 and have no contracts. “Most of us here are single parents with kids who need transport to school, food, clothes and many other things, but with what we're earning it is impossible to meet their needs.” She said there were also students and volunteers who did not get anything, and some who were paid R220 a month. From the low salaries, the workers said, they still had to pay the SA Nursing Council fees every year. “In addition, the Department of Labour says we don’t have UIF because we are not registered.” The workers also alleged they were not allowed to take sick days off, and that employers deducted money from the little they earned. Mampuru Monamudi, of the EFF, said they would ensure the workers’ demands were met. “We came here after fellow workers told us about the way they have been treated. “Most of the workers have been here for ages, but they don’t have contacts. They are not being paid normal wages. “Today they are on strike because they want to change the way things have been done for many years. "You will be shocked to understand that the highest paid gets less than the minimum wage, and all these people here don’t know what their duties are,” Monamudi  said. The EFF met  management three weeks ago and agreed the workers would sign contracts, but that had yet to happen, he said. He added that their duty was to ensure that justice prevailed and workers’ demands were met.