The demonstrators gathered near the University of Pretoria campus in the township, chanting Struggle songs and dancing. Dressed in their traditional party regalia, they said the march was in line with the call by EFF president Julius Malema, who had declared 2018 the year of public healthcare. From the campus they marched to Mamelodi Hospital, calling for the government to take healthcare in public health facilities seriously. The EFF leader in Tshwane, Benjamin Disoloane, said the party had interacted with local residents, who raised complaints related to poor service by nurses at the hospital. “They complained that despite a budget allocated to the hospital, there were not enough beds and there was no medication at the hospital. They said nurses don’t respect them when they consult.” An EFF member at the legislature, Lindiwe Dzimba, said the number of deaths at the hospital was a serious concern. “We are here to represent HIV and Aids patients who are openly called while in queues and refused medication, humiliated, increasing the stagmatising of HIV/Aids” Dzimba said the party was calling on nurses to treat women with respect when they give birth in the maternity wards. She said demonstrators would give hospital management five days to respond to complaints. “All patients must be attended to immediately when they arrive at the casualties. Patients awaiting a doctor’s check-up at casualty must be given food when hungry.” Dzimba called for the government to expedite the turnaround time to fill vacant posts at the hospital. “Staff must not be overworked to avoid fatigue that leads to the deterioration of quality healthcare. Ensure more nurses and doctors to ensure quality healthcare,” she said. Hospital management was also called on to immediately repair the passage ceiling that had been leaking since 2011, Dzimba said. Senior hospital administrator Machaka Mashaba said management was committed to addressing the grievances raised and would respond. The march coincided with the demonstration by other party members in Soweto, expected to be led by Malema, at Chris Hani Baragwanath Hospital. Disoloane said the party would visit health facilities across the City of Tshwane. See page 4 