GOITSEMANG TLHABYE CHIEF of the South African National Defence Force, Zacharia Shoke, has encouraged soldiers to maintain discipline whilst out on the roads for the coming easter holiday. Shoke was addressing soldiers and visitors at the SANDF’s Easter service celebration held at Thaba Tshwane yesterday ahead of the long weekend pilgrimage. He pleaded with everyone that would be travelling to spend time with their families and to also spare a thought for the soldiers who would be serving their country’s borders and defending abroad. Shoke said despite the jovial and celebratory mood of the celebration, he had been dismayed at reports of South African soldiers being involved in sexual abuse whilst in the Eastern Democratic Republic of Congo recently. “I want to put it on record as the chief of the SANDF that we don’t take kindly to that type of behaviour and when anyone misbehaves, we deal with them thoroughly on the spot,” he said. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  The United Nations reported last week that five South African soldiers were being investigated for allegedly abusing four adults and a minor between 2014 and 2016. He added that while such reports were unfortunate, he had already ordered for more personnel to be sent to the eastern DRC to conduct further investigations to find out if there is anything else untoward that needed to be dealt with. Shoke said reports should not deter other members as the majority of them continued to display bravery, discipline and made numerous sacrifices in the name of the country. “You should not despair, I am proud of you. In fact the sacrifices made are something all South Africans should be proud of.” As he concluded he asked for those present to continue to pray for those peddling misleading information, rumour mongering and spreading fake news. Following that the SANDF chaplains gave a sermon, whilst the SANDF brass band and aviation choir sang praise hymns that had all in attendance on their feet dancing and clapping.