Nine family members visited the gallows at Kgosi Mampuru II Correctional Centre to find closure for stalwarts of former PAC armed wing Poqo, who were hanged in the 1960s. They cut forlorn figures as they walked into the dark and slightly chilly building, where their loved ones’ lives ended at the pull of a lever that flipped open the trapdoor through which their bodies would be left to swing as they took their last breath. A tour guide took the families through the building, explaining the details surrounding their loved ones’ last moments. It didn’t take long before tears started following. The first stop was the small Chapel, were the tour guide explained that it was where the condemned men were allowed to attend a brief service before execution. No one was allowed to see the bodies, the guide said. After the service coffins would be taken to the gallows. From there, they would be taken for burial in unmarked graves. Nombulelo Mgweba said her uncle, Mcdonald Mgweba, aged 30 at the time, was hanged on May 30, 1967. “How cruel do you have to be be to kill another human like this? How did these people sleep at night? I have mixed emotions right now. I’m glad I’ve found closure with my uncle and, equally, am angered by the (way) he died.” Almost all the family members shared the same sentiments. Monica Maseti, whose father Nkosencinci Maseti, was hanged in 1967 for killing a suspected informer, sobbed uncontrollably as she listened to the tour guide relaying the agonising stories. Family members heard of how some prisoners would walk to the execution rooms singing hymns, while most did not say a word. On the walls are inscribed the memories of death-row prison warders, prisoners and even the executioner, Chris Barnard, who is believed to have executed about 
1 500 prisoners between 1962 and 1986. The families then walked up the 52 flight of steps, adorned by pictures of loved ones stuck along the walls of the prison facility. What broke the the spirit of family members even further was when the tour guide explained the paradox of the telephone inside the execution chambers. An old, corded telephone stood on a small table in the execution chamber. He said it was there for the president to use to spare a prisoner’s life, but it never rang. Family members also read quotes written on the walls by inmates, warders and even from heart surgeon, Dr Chris Barnard (no relation to the executioner): “It may indeed be quick. We do not know as none has survived to vouch for it." PAC president Narius Moloto encouraged attendees to carry on the fight for liberation. “We have a new battle to fight now; land. Our comrades died for political freedom not we must by all costs attain financial freedom, through land,” he said. Co-ordinator for the Gallows Exhumation Project, Thapelo Mokushane, said the nine men were among the 130 bodies which had been identified. Mokushane said after exhumation, the next step would be a handover ceremony to be conducted by political prisoners and the minister of justice, and finally, the reburial.