Makhura tore into City DA mayor Solly Msimanga and City officials on a visit to the site of the accident, saying their inaction showed insensitivity to the needs of the families. As he looked up to the top of the mast, and down to the dusty ground with makeshift crosses, withered flowers and burnt-out candles below, and spoke to children and adults in the community, Makhura said he was “deeply disappointed” in the City. He said its incompetence in dealing with the matter was inexcusable. Cable thieves have been blamed for the accident in which the heavy casings carrying giant bulbs fell down in early November. But yesterday, more than four months later, nothing has been done to fix the light and residents say they are still waiting for the report promised by the City into the tragedy. Four children - Dimpho Bopape, 5; Boitshoko Bopape, 11; Lethabo Matibako and Maikano Khoza, both 9; died at the scene. Kearabile Baloyi, 11, died in hospital. Thembeka Mqciwa and Ofentse Khoza were treated for injuries and discharged. “Nearly five months down the line, no one has come to brief the families on the investigation,” said Makhura. When he spoke to the mayor about the incident - which happened on November 4 - he was assured an investigation would be conducted and the families helped, he said. Makhura assured the families he would meet Msimanga and deal with the matter. The mayor, he said, must give him answers. Last year when Msimanga went to the area to express his condolences to the families, he was treated with hostility by the angry community members and could not even get out of his car. They accused him of being aware of the problem of cable theft damaging the mast and doing nothing to fix it. An angry crowd threw stones at him and police fired rubber bullets to disperse them. Msimanga was escorted from the area. His spokesperson Sam Mgobozi told the Pretoria News yesterday that investigations by the City were ongoing. He did not comment further. The families told Makhura they were not coping with the loss of their children and needed grief counselling. Eddie Baloyi, father of Kearabile, said he had not been the same since that fateful day. “All I do is drink to numb the ever recurring pain. I need help, I need to talk to someone, Mr Premier,” a tearful Baloyi told Makhura. Makhura bent down and spoke comfortingly to Thembeka Mqciwa, 10, who was one of two survivors. Her mom Pinky said her daughter did not talk about what had happened to her friends but that she had nightmares and it was “killing her inside. She wakes up screaming in the night. She desperately needs professional help”. Pinky said her daughter had been playing with other children near the mast. When she went outside to find her she saw the children lying on the ground. Some were hurt, others were dead. Thembeka was fortunate not to have suffered a direct hit. She was treated for injuries to her leg. The Bopape family lost two children - Dimpho and Boikhutso. They  said they wanted to be moved to another house. The tragedy was literally in their back yard and seeing the damaged mast was painful. Makhura took his time inspecting the scene, which has not changed since the accident, because, the community said they were told they should not tamper with evidence.