Symbolically, it also marked the official launch of a new phase in her legacy seed bank project. The seed bank at the Margaret Roberts Herbal Centre in De Wildt is a repository of 1500 seeds representing South Africa’s indigenous food and medicinal plants. Her daughter Sandy explained at an event at the centre on Saturday that the seed bank was germinated when her daughter (now a teenager) had been a toddler at the newly-formed Mountain Cambridge Pre-Primary School at Hartbeespoort, and Sandy and her mother would gather seeds for the children to plant in the school’s gardens. But it was on a holiday visit to the Seychelles, where Roberts discovered that the island nation had a national seed bank to protect its plant diversity for the future, that the idea really grew. Sandy credits her mother’s indomitable spirit and her ability to rally people behind her for the success of the project - from her own seed bank to realising that there is a place to promote seed banks in schools so children understand their importance as a source of food, and a symbol of growth and life itself. Margaret Roberts is associated with edible herbs and there is now a range of 10 of the most popular herb seeds available in hermetically-sealed packages from MayFord in the Garden Master range, available through Massmart (Builders Warehouse, Game and Makro). From basil and rocket to rosemary and thyme, these are herbs everyone can grow in pots or in the garden to add flavour to food. Paul Vonk of MayFord said all the seeds were “naked”, with no chemicals or genetic modifications. They could last many seasons if kept in a dry place at a constant temperature. The seed packs are also key to the legacy school bank project launched in the Margaret Roberts Memorial garden at Pretoria High School for Girls, and being extended to other schools. Grade 8 pupils are given the chance to pen a letter to their older selves which is locked away with a packet of seeds in a specially-designed seed bench (or "bank" in Afrikaans). Once the letters are opened, the girls have the choice of planting or keeping their seeds. The idea had been embraced by the Grade 8s at Jeppe Girls High where it was most recently launched, said headmistress Dina Goncalves. * Off the R513 at De Wildt, the Margaret Roberts garden is open to the public on Wednesdays and one Saturday a month.