Some of the questions relate to social cohesion, moral regeneration, illicit financial flows and the so-called radical economic transformation. EFF chief whip Floyd Shivambu wants to know the steps the government intends to take to enable the South African Reserve Bank to fight illicit financial flows and profit shifting. “Illicit financial flows and profit shifting by mining and other corporations erode the economic base, reduces public purse and impacts on the government's ability to eradicate unemployment, inequality and poverty," Shivambu said. DA chief whip John Steenhuisen will ask Mabuza about engaging society as a champion of moral regeneration, while the ANC's Thomas Makondo will ask about the action taken to stem violence against women. The NFP's Munzoor Shaik-Emam will ask about the government's time frames for radical economic transformation to ensure the return of land, protect mineral wealth and improve socio-economic conditions. But, IFP chief whip Narend Singh will ask questions about China's alleged interference in the Department of Home Affairs by allegedly regulation and mobilisation of protests at universities against visiting persons of Tibetan origin. ANC's Connie September will ask how free education will contribute to human development strategy. Presidency spokesperson Khusela Diko said the questions for oral reply would be a first for Mabuza ever since his appointment to the position of deputy president. “During this session, the deputy president will brief members of parliament on interventions to deal with violence against women and children and on plans to ensure women actively participate in the mainstream economy,” Diko said. She said Mabuza would also outline the synergy between fee-free quality education and the country's human resource development 
strategy. “Deputy President Mabuza chairs the Human Resource Development Council of South Africa, a multi-stakeholder body that creates an enabling, co-ordinated and integrated environment to focus on improving the human resource development base and skills of the South African people.” Mabuza will also brief the nation on the government's strategy to radically transform the economy, improve social cohesion and nation building working with all social partners, she said.