Lwana, serving a four-year sentence at Kgosi Mampuru II Correctional Centre, will head home to Carletonville, west of Joburg, in a year’s time. Yesterday he said that although he had never had the opportunity to study while outside, he was happy that he had managed to use his time behind bars to grab the chances given to him. “It’s not easy when you haven’t studied before, but I am happy I have something to show for it when I come out of this place,” Lwana said. He did not disclose the crime for which he had been jailed. Lwana said that when he was released he hoped he would be able to raise funds and equipment and open up his own chisa nyama (braai venue). He added: “My only wish is that those who are outside don’t have to land up in places like this before they open their eyes to the small opportunities that are out there and leave crime behind them.” Lwana was among 52 inmates who were heralded by the Department of Correctional Services and Justice at a special graduation ceremony. They received certificates and aprons after completing a 12-month training course as chef assistants. Correctional Services Gauteng regional commissioner Grace Molatedi told them the department undertook initiatives to uplift and rehabilitate inmates while also acknowledging that they had wronged their communities and therefore needed to give back. Molatedi, however, said that for programmes like these to bear fruit, collaboration and willingness were required from correctional stakeholders, inmates and the communities they hailed from. She said: “In providing skills to our offenders we aim not only to equip them with marketable skills and knowledge, we also want to effect and channel their way of thinking to get rid of undesirable behaviour and act in a way that society permits.” For the first quarter of the 2017/18 financial year, a total of 1159 offenders received skills development training, while 1204 enrolled in the second quarter. In total, 1586 offenders underwent National Certificate and vocational training, with the second quarter roping in 1467. They received entrepreneurial, computer, vocational and basic occupational skills training. “We hope that when the day of your release comes, you will look back and see the positive aspect of your incarceration,” Molatedi said. Former inmate Meldah Leshalabe was released on February 16 and also encouraged the inmates to study. Leshalabe said: “Take this second opportunity so that when you are released one day, you can confidently say no to going back to crime.”