The call was made during the commemoration of Human Rights Day outside the Pretoria City Hall yesterday. DA spokesperson for police Zakhele Mbhele said the LGTBI community continued to suffer from harassment at the hands of the police whenever they went to press charges against perpetrators of hate crimes. “We must have an effective police service that you can go and report to, not to be a victim of secondary victimisation where the police would harass you because you are gay or lesbian or a transgender person,” he said. He lamented that investigations into hate crimes took place at a snail’s pace and as a result caused delays in  justice being done. “We must then be able to trust that there will be swift investigations and that culprits are found and face justice. In the same way we need the NPA (National Prosecuting Authority) to be well resourced so that it can prosecute effectively so that justice is done,” Mbhele said. He said many of the hate crime cases were often delayed for a year or two before justice could be served. “I want to affirm the notion that the LGTBI rights are human rights. There is this nonsense that when LGTBI people are advocating for inclusion they are somehow asking for special rights. That is absolute nonsense because LGTBI people are full members of society,” he said. Hendrick Baird, station manager of Gay SA radio, called for the LGBTI community to honour those who had dedicated their lives to fight for gay rights. “I never met him but my personal hero is a man called Simon Nkoli, who was instrumental in organising the first pride march in Joburg. He bravely fought for change and we must forever honour him as the architect of the freedom that we enjoy today. "Simon would have been so proud today that finally we can hoist the pride flag, and I just want to dedicate this day to him. So many people have forgotten who he was,” he said. “Some people are still scared to go to the police to report hate crimes. I think our major challenge is that our gay women are being brutally raped and murdered,” Baird said. He also reminded people about the sad history when gay people would be arrested for disclosing their sexual identity. “To meet other people like myself, we had to meet in dark bars in the middle of the night. The men with baseball bats would come and bash us. We had to meet in dark bars and we knew these places could be raided by a heavy-handed police force. We knew that we could go to jail. We had to hide,” he said.