Demonstrators, dressed in black T-shirts with the message “ANC steals from the poor”, started their march against the 1% hike in Marabastad. They voiced their disappointment with the proposed VAT increase from 14% to 15% - the first change since 1993. Former finance minister Malusi Gigaba, during his Budget speech last month, announced that the government would increase VAT by 1% with effect from April 1, 2018. Two weeks ago, Maimane launched a national petition campaign against the VAT increase in Soshanguve, saying the DA would champion the fight for the poor. Maimane told marchers yesterday that the decision by the government was to make poor people pay for the mistakes of the ANC and former president Jacob Zuma. “The ANC is saying we are not going to cut the cabinet; we are not going to cut SAA; we are not going to cut Eskom; we are going to ask poor people to pay more money. We are here to say we stand on the side of the poor. We don’t stand on the side of the corrupt ANC,” he said. Maimane handed over the memorandum of demands to senior officials at the National Treasury, who promised to submit it to the new Finance Minister Nhlanhla Nene. Party supporters, who held placards bearing anti-VAT increase messages, gave a nod to Maimane’s impromptu speech as he urged people of all races to stand together and fight for the poor. “We are not here to fight for all. We are here to fight for the poor because poverty is on the rise. Be clear about that,” Maimane said. City mayor Solly Msimanga shared Maimane’s sentiments, saying people across the country could not afford the increase. “We can’t afford an increase. You are killing us. We are here to say that we are not going to stand and finance your nonsense going forward. We will ensure that what is due to us is actually coming to us,” he said. Gauteng DA leader John Moodey said the VAT hike would worsen the living conditions of the poor. “They want to over-tax our people and make the poor even poorer. In Gauteng we have the e-tolls which is an unjust debt. We have been fighting this thing for the past seven years. Then we have 52 cents added to fuel. That increases inflation. Then we also have a 1% VAT increase. We are taxed to death,” Moodey said. He called on South Africans to stand up for the rights of the poor by voting out the ANC government. “South Africans, we get the government we vote for. Therefore punish the ANC. Make them understand that even if we have the so-called new dawn with Cyril Ramaphosa, the ANC still remains the ANC of Jacob Gupta."