Principal and vice-chancellor Professor Mandla Makhanya said the awards were held annually to recognise outstanding research undertaken by Unisa’a talented researchers. This initiative was fundamental to the  university’s approach of unrelenting commitment to excellence and support for its researchers at different levels of their careers. Former resident and Unisa chancellor Dr Thabo Mbeki presented the the Chancellor’s Prizes for Excellent Research. Unisa vice-president of the research, postgraduate studies, innovation and commercialisation portfolio, Dr Daisy Selematsela, said the university was in an unique position to redefine knowledge in the interest of development in Africa. Makhanya told the audience he was confident that researchers headed in the right direction in terms of providing knowledge from an African perspective although more still needed to be done to increase total percentage of research coming from the continent. He said: “Well done to all of you for your dedication and research. It requires of you to go the extra mile and be away from your families. For that we thank them for their support.” Among the recipients was Dr Shandré Jansen van Rensburg, 29, who received the Elsevier 2017 Women in Research award for being Unisa’s Youngest Female Doctoral Graduate. Jansen van Rensburg was only 28 when she received her doctoral degree in criminology from the College of Law last year. The Centurion resident said no words could describe how proud she was to receive the award as a young woman. “I feel humbled because this has also shown how education can change and impact a person’s life positively. “I think differently and most importantly, I have learnt that there is always so much more to learn.” Professor Azwihangwisi Mavhandu-Mudzusi of Sunnyside received the Chancellor Award for Excellence and the 2017 Prestigious External Research Award for her work in human sciences. “I am so happy and humbled. This goes to show that women can be empowered by education to enter and compete in a man’s world. I hope I can be an inspiration to a lot of young people out there,” she said. Menlyn resident Professor Patrick Ngulube was recognised as one of the scholars who were already established and whose work was recognised internationally. He received the Chancellor Award for Excellence and 2018 National Research Foundation C1 award. He said: “I am really speechless to receive the Chancellor Award from an intellectual like Dr Mbeki. It is really humbling” Other recipients of awards included Amanda Spies and Thulisile Shandu, who received the Elsevier 2017 Women in Research for Emerging Researcher Awards.