Diketso - a play which follows the story of a woman who suffers the repercussions of not obeying an ancestral calling is currently on at the South African State Theatre and it features a woman named 'Mmatsheko' who loses her mind after her only son is stoned to death. Her son is killed by the community during a mob justice incident because she does not answer her calling to become a traditional healer. For the past two weeks, audiences have witnessed through music, dance and storytelling her ancestors sharing the gift of healing with her. As she undergoes the process, they also let go of the anger they had for her. With no medical doctor to help her, Mmatsheko finds herself in an unknown and strange place where she is told she will be undergoing healing and, in the process, become a sangoma/traditional healer. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  The play has been on stage from September 7 and the last show will be on September 23 at 3pm. The State Theatre is showing this in association with Kepra Productions, and tickets range from R55 to R110 at Computicket. Written and directed by Kedibone Manyaka, the story is about personal observations and confirmation that culture should never be taken for granted. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  “It is a clarion call to our people to be in touch with their Africanness and how far modern trends and practices can affect humanity in the African context. "It is a calling on our people to revisit that which has made them African in the first place,” said Manyaka, urging people to go and see it, as it was something everyone had to experience to understand. The play premiered at the Grahamstown National Arts festival last year and there it received much applause.