He was speaking at the opening of the three-day National Crime Detection Conference in Erasmia, themed “Repositioning crime detection for excellence and synergy in the SAPS”. It is aimed at discussing how crime detection methods may be improved. “There has been a spate of cash-in-transit heists, putting the lives of innocent people in danger and threatening the country’s economy. “The SAPS acts swiftly to respond to crimes. However, we have to be more proactive in detecting crime trends instead of merely responding to crimes that had taken place or are in progress. “We trust that these deliberations will give us sufficient ammunition to enable us to detect crime more effectively, and much earlier,” he said. Scores of guests, including representatives of the departments of Health, Justice and Home Affairs, National Prosecuting Authority, CSIR, Consumer Goods Council of SA and various embassies attended the conference. Tsumane said police must learn, unlearn and relearn how to improve crime scene management simulation exercises. Also, the presentation and implementation of the crime scene management manual, and the challenges of pathological reports and their impact on service delivery within the crime detection environment. The role of crime detection experts from the Forensic Science Laboratory, Detective Services, Crime Intelligence, Visible Policing and other external law enforcement agencies will discuss different topics to improve crime detection. The SAPS, Tsumane said, was starting a modus operandi analysis centre as part and parcel of the broader vision for the next five years. The centre was key because all the data to be included in there would enable officers to make sure they understood what was happening. DNA would also be stored in that particular centre. “From time to time we will zoom in on that particular centre and deal with criminals,” he said. Lieutenant-General Mark Magadlela told the conference the migration of crime detection resources from the strategic level to the local policing framework was intended to ensure effective and responsive investigation. “It is with this perspective in mind that this Crime Detection Conference was instigated, to create an important platform to reposition the three Divisions - Detective Services, Forensic Services and Crime Intelligence,” said Magadlela. The conference will see live simulations of crime scenes by forensic experts, to better inform the decision-making and outcomes.