Grade 11 pupil and project oil sourcer Brandon van Dyk said it was important because they wanted to reduce dependence on oil and make the planet a better place. The fuel could be used in most modern diesel engines and was renewable since it was made from plant oil, the 17-year-old explained. He added that since they had organised themselves into a group to research and innovate it had become easy for him to find extra time and space to think and perfect the technology projects. It was the trial and error he enjoyed the most, he said. “Perseverance is key; we did this three times, and every single time we tried and we cleaned up the mess and tried again.” He had the opinion that this could become a win-win situation in business and could curb rising fuel costs. The machine they manufactured is complex; it is a drum with a heating element, pump and temperature measurements. The pupils helped to build the machine with engineering and graphic design teacher Neil Smit, who also conducted some of the research into the feasibility of producing the fuel. They plan to adapt parts of the process later using Arduino and coding and adapting the machine to run on solar power. The school introduced students to alternative fuels and gave them an opportunity to produce their own biodiesel fuel. The text of the exercise gave students a brief background in the environmental benefits of using biodiesel as a diesel substitute. Smit said: “I used to make my own diesel at home while I was in the Cape. I moved to Gauteng where I always joked about making it, but people would not believe me. “My pupils started saying if this was true I must show them how it was made. While doing it we thought: ‘how about we not do it in a small jar but rather let us build a machine’. “The pupils had to rebuild the machine three times just to figure out its actual operation; it is not done it is still to be adapted to get more control systems on it. “Going through the steps from oil to fuel enables the student to grasp the fuel-making process. Included in this exercise has been the basic oil analysis necessary to differentiate between the various oils that a bio-diesel producer may encounter,” Smit said.