About two weeks ago, a special council meeting resolved that Mosola should be given a notice of intention to suspend him over the controversial GladAfrica tender debacle, pending an investigation. The deal, which is milking the municipal coffers like the Peu smart electricity meters tender under the former ANC administration, was allegedly entered into by the municipal manager without following supply chain regulations. He had to provide reasons why he should not be suspended within the specified time, which he did. The matter must now yet again serve before council, which will determine whether or not he gets suspended. But the outcome could depend on the political composition of the Sammy Marks Council Chamber. In order for executive mayor Solly Msimanga’s request for council to suspend his head of administration to be adopted, either the EFF or official opposition ANC will need to vote with the ruling DA-led coalition on the matter. You will remember that Msimanga retained his position by the skin of his teeth two weeks ago when the EFF motion of no confidence in him was found to be on the wrong side of regulations. The ANC, a toothless dog without EFF support, then abandoned its own motion to oust the mayor. While the EFF threatened court action, which the ANC publicly vowed to endorse, that is yet to happen. Prior to that Thursday, when Msimanga appeared to be a dead mayor walking heading into the council sitting, both opposition parties had taken Mosola's side. What stood out was how new ANC caucus leader and regional chairperson Dr Kgosi Maepa changed his stance that Mosola unlawfully awarded the R12 billion contract - he shifted his focus to Msimanga and the irregular appointments of senior officials in the mayor's private office. According to mayor wannabe Maepa, the municipal manager was paying the price for exposing these appointments. A similar position was adopted by the EFF, which also called for Msimanga’s head and Mosola to stay put. However, the opposition parties ignored the vital aspect that Mosola, as accounting officer, had a case to answer on GladAfrica. If his hands are indeed clean as they claim, that should be confirmed by the investigation and not personal and political sentiments. Mosola has already been accused of gunning for officials who lifted the lid on the irregularities related to the tender (for overseeing infrastructure rollout across Tshwane). These allegations are yet to be tested, but the standard practice is that an accused should be removed from the scene of the alleged crime while the investigation is ongoing. Like the motion of no confidence against the mayor, his fate may depend on the horse-trading and politicking ahead of the special council that will determine Mosola's fate. However, if Mosola is as innocent as he, the EFF and ANC claim, he should be brave enough to face the investigation. If cleared, then he will have earned the right to flash the report of the investigation in Msimanga’s eyes and declare “I told you so”. Ducking and diving behind political backers will not take away the fact that he is accused of the biggest scandal to rock the first DA-led government in Tshwane. * Mudzuli is Pretoria News assistant editor. He writes in a personal capacity.