Instead, the students yesterday halted academic proceedings at the institution’s Soshanguve North and South campuses, demanding justice for the slain student. Classes at all six campuses had been suspended and flags flown at half-mast to mourn Monareng, who was buried in Bushbuckridge at the weekend. Classes were expected to resume yesterday. Monareng was shot dead in the violence that followed allegations that the SRC elections had been rigged. The Independent Police Investigative Directorate (Ipid) is probing the incident and university management has also appointed forensic investigators to look into the matter. Yesterday students told the Pretoria News that classes would only resume once investigations had been done. The Pretoria West campus was also shut down halfway through the day. SRC deputy president Kevin Phehla said: “At this rate it is difficult to tell when the shutdown is likely to end. Students are angry; they want answers from the university and the police.” Phehla said that in addition to a speedy investigation, students were also calling for the sacking of vice-chancellor Professor Lourens van Staden, who they claimed had no interest in the Soshanguve campuses. Second-year education student Tsietsi Malatji said the majority of students believed Van Staden was not prioritising Soshanguve’s safety and residential concerns. “He doesn’t care about Sosh because he knows there are no white students here.” Before students halted classes and administrative activities yesterday, university spokesperson Willa de Ruyter said that this week was dedicated to lecturing activity. However, no tests would be written until Friday. “There’s a catch-up plan. Forensic investigations will start his week and are expected to be concluded in three weeks.” Professor Stanley Mukhola, deputy vice-chancellor, said: “We have discussed with student leaders and the Deputy Minister of Police (Bongani Mkongi) that calm will be restored while we wait for the investigation to take its course,” he said.