The ANC, on September 16, 1993, in a statement titled “ANC demands suspension of petrol price increase” said: “The ill-considered and uncaring decision to increase the petrol price only confirms the National Party government does not have the interests of the majority of South Africans, who are poor and struggling desperately to make ends meet, at heart. If the government persists in pressing ahead with these indefensible price hikes, they will be inviting a similar reaction to that when VAT was increased.” How quick we forget Honourable Speaker, with seven petrol price increases this year against a 1% VAT increase and fuel levy increase of 52cents in April, surely South Africans are in a corner. These incessant increases are overbearing, and surely perpetuate poverty, inequality, and are a daily struggle for our people. While we are not in control of global prices of fuel, we are in control of the taxes and levies we charge per litre, and to continue charging these taxes on the backs of the poor this government is complicit in the oppression of the very people it is mandated to serve. The fuel levies of R5.30 must be suspended as a matter of urgency to give relief to the majority of South Africans. In the absence of a comprehensive relief package for citizens from government, it thus becomes Parliament’s duty to adjust the budget in the Budgetary Review, Recommendations and Reports (BRRR) process with a view to reduce government expenditure and offset what will be lost to the fiscus by suspending fuel levies. It is inexcusable that government spending went up by 0.7% while, on the other hand, South Africans are expected to tighten their belts. When will the government tighten its own belt, eradicate reckless spending and combat corrupt spending. Corruption costs South Africa R27billion every year on average, and poor South Africans continue to sink deeper into poverty. The tables must turn, it is high time the government bears the brunt of cutting the fat from the lean, and begin spending on needs, not wants. South Africans have reached their tether. Projections are that fuel will increase by R1.17 next month. With every increase it is the poorest of the poor who are hit hardest, further widening the inequality gap. South Africa has thus become the most unequal country in the world with a Gini coefficient of 0.95. The cost of food is bound to go up as we grapple with the recession proudly brought to us by the ANC. The government needs to come to terms with the fact that we are in a critical position as a country. The standard of living is extremely high. Perhaps the uncomfortable truth is that southern Africa is not home to reasonably priced fuel in general. This is despite Angola being Africa’s second largest exporter of oil. Our fuel prices in SA are on an upward trend and our region neighbours and trading partners - Botswana, Malawi, Mozambique and Namibia - have all cheaper fuel than us. This despite the fact that SA is the oil-to-liquid fuel refining, storage and distribution powerhouse of southern Africa. Let us now begin a process, starting with the suspension of fuel levies until such time the global price of petrol has stabilised and for Parliament in the fourth term to overhaul the entire budget through the BRRR process. We dare not fail.  Hlengwa, an MP and IFP national spokesperson who proposed the fuel price debate, made this presentation to Parliament this week.