At least 19% of all cardiovascular disease deaths are caused by outdoor and household air pollution; the equivalent of more than 3 million deaths every year. The latest scientific evidence by Nature4 warns that exposure to nitrogen dioxide and fine particulate matter air pollution, originating from household wood, coal burning, industrial facilities, vehicle emissions and agricultural burning, was linked to cardiovascular disease mortality. In addition, exposure to these particles increases the risk of developing hypertension and type 2 diabetes, which are major risk factors for cardiovascular disease. Poor air quality is also ranked as the fourth cause of disability - according to the latest Global Burden of Disease study. The campaign's president, Professor David Wood, said: “Reducing exposure to air pollution has become a crucial challenge that the world needs to face if we are to continue advancing in our goal to reduce the impact of non-communicable diseases, especially cardiovascular disease - the world's biggest killer. “On World Heart Day, we are raising awareness of poor outdoor and household air quality as an increasingly important risk factor, and bringing together all those involved in cardiovascular health, from every country in the world in the fight to reduce cardiovascular disease.” The slogan is, My Heart, Your Heart, the Heart of all South Africans. The campaign is premised on the fact that in South Africa, there are unique cardiovascular challenges as cardiac disease in pregnancy and rheumatic heart disease are common. It will aim to spread the word on social media, sharing the campaign video, organising fundraising activities for local heart foundations and illuminating iconic landmarks, buildings and monuments. Foundation chief executive, Professor Pamela Naidoo, said: “We are very fortunate to have institutions and partners around South Africa who share the passion to reduce cardiovascular disease in the country, and who have consequently decided to light up in red as a demonstration of support and advocacy for improving the health of all.” The foundation said nearly one in five deaths from cardiovascular disease were caused by air pollution. “On World Heart Day, the World Heart Federation is raising awareness of the strong link between poor air quality and cardiovascular disease, including heart disease and strokes,” Naidoo said. About 7 million people die prematurely every year from air pollution, and of this number, 1.4 million die of strokes and more than 2 million of heart disease.