This is according to the Road to a Healthier SA report, released by Discovery Vitality this week. Tshwane residents did not fare as well, placing third behind Johannesburg, followed by Durban, Port Elizabeth and then Bloemfontein. When it comes to going to the gym, Tshwane residents placed fourth. The report crunched cross-sectional data from the Discovery Fittest City index and the Drive Well index in the six main metros from the past three years. When it came to driving, residents of Tshwane ranked fifth. “There are two main behaviours causing significant illness and deaths among South Africans. One, how we drive. Two, how much we move,” Dr Craig Nossel, Head of Vitality Wellness. Only one in four South Africans is physically active, according to the company’s studies. Globally, 23% of people live sedentary lives, but in South Africa, the figure stands at 50%. The statistics are staggering, he said. “More than five million deaths could be avoided each year if people moved regularly,” said Nossel. When it comes to road accidents, “More than 1.25 million people die in road accidents every year - that’s an average 3 425 people a day.” “Added to this, between 20 and 50 million people suffer non-fatal injuries, and many become disabled. But, we can improve these statistics,” he said. In a bid to inspire South Africans to get more active and adopt good driving habits, Discovery Vitality is giving everyone the opportunity to be part of their Vitality Active programme for a period of 10 weeks. “We need to create an environment that encourages healthier lifestyles and better driving. We aim to do just that over the next 10 weeks with Vitality Open - by making Vitality Active Rewards available to all South Africans for the first time.” To participate, download the app, get fit, drive better - and stand the chance to win prizes and get Vitality rewards. Anyone interested can download the app, not just to get fit but to also stand a chance to win prizes including holidays, flights, gym membership, phones, and shopping vouchers.