This was after officials from the Education Department arrived to shut down the school, Centauri Dual Medium School, for operating illegally. Management had also failed to comply with with an order to close down the independent school. On arrival at the smallholding where the school is located, the government officials were denied entry. They then went to open a case at the Wierdabrug police station. Department spokesperson Steve Mabona said the school had approached the Tshwane South District office in 2016 requesting to be registered as an examination centre for the National Senior Certificate exam. However, the request was declined due to issues related to non-compliance in terms of Grade 10 and 11 promotion schedules. “It must be noted that there is a threat to the continuation of provision of education services by the owner of the school,” Mabona said. “The department has therefore acted in compliance with the prescripts of the policy regulating the registration and withdrawal of registration of independent schools and the mandate that quality education is provided to learners in all our schools.” Some of the neighbours also complained that pupils teased their dogs and loitered around, as well as played with the water meters. According to Mabona, there were 21 regulations that the school did not comply with. Among these was the fact that it was operating from a residential dwelling. The educator was living on the premises with his bedroom adjoined to a classroom. The school only had three educators overseeing pupils in Grade 8, 9, 10, 11 and 12. One, Susarie Borchard, had no teaching qualification and was not registered with the South African Council for Educators, Mabona said. He said the school also disregarded assessment policies and exam procedures and tasks given to pupils were not Curriculum Assessment Policy Statements compliant. It also had no laboratory and practical work was done at the school. “It is quite sad what happened here at this house; one would not call it a school. Some of these pupils don’t even look ready to go to school. Others appeared not to have bathed; it’s sad.” Mabona said that during discussions following police intervention, the principal told the officials that they wanted to continue operating. However, he said they had opened a case with the police and would consult with the department’s legal team to facilitate a process to secure a court order to stop it from operating. The school has, according to neighbours who refused to be named, been operating for close to five years. “The set-up inside is not healthy for learners to go through. We will interact with parents and find alternative placement in other public schools for the learners.” One parent, who refused to be named, arrived at the school worried as she said her son had called her to fetch him as there was chaos. The mother said she had no idea the school was operating illegally as her son had started school there in June this year. “We implore parents to check whether the schools they take their children to are compliant with the department. “With regards to the 10 pupils who are here, we advise parents not to bring them here anymore,” Mabona said.