Some residents claimed the walls of the houses were already in a dilapidated state when they were allocated houses and moved in early this year. They were deeply worried that the situation could only get worse during rainy seasons - water seeped through the gaping cracks when it rained. Some cracks were visible on the outside walls while others had developed inside the houses. Resident Daniel Magaga said his RDP house was already in a poor condition when he was moved into it in April. Magaga, who is unemployed, said he didn't have the means to fix the house. He said many residents had on numerous occasions alerted the City about the cracks, but their complaints fell on deaf ears. “Most of these houses were built more than two years ago and no one was allocated to them until early this year. We were promised that these houses would be repaired, but were not given the time frames for fixing them,” he said. The houses have geysers, but some of them were not functioning because the contractor didn't connect them to the solar power on the rooftops. “I was told that it could only come to be connected it only if I could buy some fittings for the geyser. I was told there was no budget to buy the fittings,” he said. Other residents complained about leaks in their sinks, saying they were not properly fitted. Chairperson of international relations in the National Council of Provinces (NCOP) Masefako Dikgale raised concerns about poor workmanship on the houses during her visit to the settlement last week. She and her delegation were concerned about reports of subcontractors, who had not been paid in three years. “While some signs of poor workmanship, such as cracks and incomplete houses, were noticeable, the delegation also heard of leaking water pipes as a result of poor plumbing,” Dikgale said. Fact Box Residents are former shack-dwellers of Marry Me informal settlement. Last September dwellers complained about the municipality's slow delivery of RDP houses in Extension 19. They alleged the relocation process of residents from Marry Me to the houses was tainted with corruption. MMC for Human Settlement Mandla Nkomo dismissed the allegations, saying they were unfounded and untrue.