Mosola will remain the head of the administration in the metro pending the outcome of a probe into allegations that he unlawfully awarded a multi-billion rand tender without following due processes. The decision was taken during a special council sitting convened specifically to decide Mosola’s future. However, after day-long discussions, councillors from different parties agreed to amend the original recommendation to suspend him. Executive Mayor Solly Msimanga had tabled a report in which he proposed that council approve the suspension of the city manager pending the investigation into the allegations of misconduct. But instead, council resolved that the chief operating officer be authorised to appoint an independent investigator into the allegations and report to council within 30 days. Msimanga had recommended that Mosola be barred from entering municipal premises pending the outcome of the investigation. He cited that allowing him into City buildings could jeopardise the investigation into the alleged misconduct. He said Mosola might interfere with potential witnesses due to the fact that the city manager and his office were inextricably linked to the processes which led to the appointment of GladAfrica to oversee infrastructure rollout in terms of the tender. The proposal was, however, defeated by both the ANC and EFF, with both opposition parties calling for the suspension not to be effected as recommended by Msimanga. EFF leader in Tshwane Moaferika Mabogwana initially wanted GladAfrica to be scrapped and replaced with a project management unit. He was referring to a recommendation that said “cognisance of the allegations of misconduct against the city manager with regard to the GladAfrica transaction be confirmed”. Mabogwana also shot down a recommendation that Mosola be suspended on full pay pending the completion of the investigation into all the allegations of misconduct pertaining to the GladAfrica transaction. He also disagreed with the original recommendation that called for Msimanga to notify Mosola in writing of the council’’s decision to suspend him. Mabogwana argued that task must be undertaken by council. However, ANC chief whip Aaron Maluleka differed with the amendment, saying council could not appoint an investigator. “That (task) should be apportioned to the accounting officer in terms of delegation (of duties),” he said. The parties eventually agreed that the chief operating officer should be empowered to appoint an independent investigator because Mosola, who by law must execute that task, was implicated in the alleged wrongdoing. The EFF reasoned that the investigation must be conducted with 60 days to avoid putting officials under pressure. The party gave in after it was persuaded that the 30-day period was prescribed by the law. The probe would look at allegations that Mosola flouted supply chain management policies during the awarding of the tender to GladAfrica. It was contracted to the City in November last year to assist in the rolling out of capital infrastructure projects valued at R3.7billion in this financial year.