Prusa, 35, said: “I had this vision while sitting around a fire; I was dancing with different indigenous people from Southern Africa. “I then had this urge of making the vision a reality and I felt South Africa needed prayer and indigenous practitioners to come together and care for and support each other.” The vision has become a reality, and Prusa is in the country to participate in a sacred prayer ceremony. She is accompanied by the Wixaritari, or Huichol medicine people from Mexico, who all heeded the call to come and pray for the wrongs of the country. The group of eight arrived in Pretoria three days ago, and yesterday they held a prayer at the Mothong African Heritage Trust on the Mamelodi mountain, led by local traditional healer Dr Cebisa Mabena. They said they were praying for the ills and all that was wrong in the country. The holders of indigenous knowledge also shared music, poetry and dance. With all the rhino poaching, divisions and social ills taking place continually, she said the prayer was important. “We wanted to pray with intention for the animals, what with all the poaching that’s happening, for the people and the divisions. “Also we are praying for peace on the land, soil and water,” Prusa said. They placed a sacred yellow candle on top of stones, saying this was an offering to the sun; they also placed flowers and coins as offerings to the earth as it was important to give back to the earth. The candle and flowers were used to cleanse everyone present at the site; they were then carefully placed on the shrine on the ground. They also gathered around a sacred fire which was a short distance from the flower shrine and prayed as part of their efforts to give back to the land. “The candle represents the heart of the sun, and we are also giving coins and flowers back to the earth because we take metals out of the earth,” Prusa said. Mabena, caretaker of the area which is rich in plants used for both indigenous and Western medicine, said they were honoured and blessed to host the visitors. He said: “This visit is long overdue; we appreciate the visitors and prayers, especially as they are being conducted on this sacred land.”