Education MEC Panyaza Lesufi launched the proposed amendments to the schools admissions policy during a public meeting held at Sutherland High school in Centurion on August21. The original deadline was August30. Lesufi, addressing parents, highlighted that the changes were instituted to ensure the department was aligned with national legislation and complied with a Constitutional Court judgment of determining feeder zones. He said these would also clarify ambiguity following the court battles the department had faced most recently. These included challenges to admissions of pupils at schools such as OverKruin, Montana and Afrikaanse Hoër Meisieskool. Various school governing bodies challenged the department over last-minute admissions of pupils to their schools, which they felt were all full to capacity and did not comply with the schools’ admission policies. Now, with the proposed amendments, the department hoped issues regarding the department overreaching its hand in schools’ governance will be better clarified for all. Some of the changes include ensuring that the head of department had the responsibility for the admission and placement of pupils to all public ordinary schools in the province, which could also be delegated to the district director. The department also proposes to tighten its grip on unfair discriminatory practices against pupils based on not having the relevant documentation, squarely placing the final authority of admission of pupils in the hands of the head of department. And while governing bodies still retained the power to determine an admission policy, this would only be after the policy was submitted and approved by the head of department. Until such an approval had been granted, the policy would not be effective, as Lesufi said they wanted to avoid having governing bodies implementing unapproved policies. Feeder zones had also been altered from 5km to a 30km radius in what the department said would address spatial transformation. Documentation of entry phase pupils must be submitted to the department within seven days of the end of the application period. Schools were also to report undocumented pupils to the provincial department, which would, according to officials, facilitate proper documentation and compliance with the Department of Home Affairs’ legislation. The order or preference regarding admissions had also been changed to see that the schools would take into consideration the feeder zones closer to the school, then siblings, parents’ place of work and the adjusted application zone. Lesufi’s spokesperson Steve Mabona said the department was eager to hear concerns from parents and education stakeholders regarding the proposed amendments, which were available on the department’s website. “Written comments may be submitted until September14, and may be posted to the department’s head offices in Joburg, or hand delivered,” he said.