Muraga Mavula died in December 2015 after he apparently went to search for a lost goat. It is claimed that Schalk Myburgh and his son, Schalk jnr, saw Mavula emerging from the bushes with a goat. They confronted him about the animal and an altercation allegedly broke out. It is claimed that the Myburghs later drove over Mavula with their vehicle, killing him. Forensic pathologist Professor Gert Saayman testified yesterday that he had little hesitation in finding that Mavula was involved in a road traffic accident. Saayman said he had done thousands of autopsies, many of which were vehicle and road accidents, and this case fitted the glove. Saayman, however, did not do the initial autopsy on Mavula, but gave expert evidence after he studied the initial autopsy findings. Saayman called the 48 rib fractures Mavula had suffered “astonishing to put it mildly”. But he said these were not the kind of injuries one would see after an assault. He said if Mavula was so severely assaulted before his death as to cause his liver to rupture, one would have expected a lot of blood in his abdomen. Saayman said he could not say whether Mavula was assaulted or not before he was involved in an accident. Although he could not say whether the injuries were caused by the wheel of a car driving over Mavula, Saayman said given the nature of the injuries, it could not be ruled out that an object such as a car pressed heavily against his body. The Myburghs pleaded not guilty to the murder. Myburgh snr said they were returning home after working on a swimming pool at a nearby house. They saw a bakkie on the road with its lights on. They saw two men emerge from the bushes with an animal, which they carried by the legs. They saw two more men emerge, also with an animal. The Myburghs suspected the men of stealing cattle and they stopped to confront them. His son got out of the vehicle and confronted the victim. “He punched my son on the mouth. I moved in to stop him and I pushed him with my hand.” Myburgh said he felt blows to his body and fell on top of the victim. He managed to flee into the bushes, while his son drove off to get help. When his son returned, all was quiet and they left because they feared trouble. Myburgh said when they left he saw another bakkie parked in front of the victim’s vehicle. He also saw someone sitting next to the road, but he could not see who it was. The case will proceed on September 20.