This was the view of the former MEC for arts, sport and culture in Limpopo, Onicca Moloi, during a panel debate at Tshwane University of Technology. The event was hosted by the South African Association of Public Administration and Management’s Gauteng chapter. All participants shared their thoughts on the realities of coalition governments in the wake of the 2016 municipal elections. “We are going to have a coalition government in 2019 unless a miracle happens,” said Moloi. While she bemoaned the fact that coalitions at many municipalities had failed to yield positive results, she conceded that the phenomenon was part of their reality. “If a coalition government could be about the people, then it would be a meaningful coalition,” she said. Moloi remarked that after the 2016 polls, some political parties formed coalitions because they wanted to spite former president Jacob Zuma. “Now that the common denominator, Zuma, is no longer there, you begin to fight among yourselves,” she said. Tshwane regional ANC chairperson Dr Kgosi Maepa bashed the DA-led coalition in the city, saying it was collapsing due to corruption and maladministration. He said there was no party in Tshwane that won with an outright majority of the votes two years ago. According to him, the ANC failed to secure the 50-plus-one threshold to govern the city because its supporters didn’t turn up at the polling stations. Political activist Magdalene Moonsamy held the view that the country wasn't ready for coalition set-ups due to a lack of “maturity of democracy”. “The coalition governments will be necessary when we are ready (as a country),” she said. According to her, the problem with coalition arrangements in the country was that they were based on anything other than tenders. Cope senior official Lyndall Shope-Mafole said the emerging trend of coalitions showed that citizens were increasingly beginning to prioritise what was important to them. “Coalitions always address the crisis of the time and are not based on the alignment of policies.” She said service delivery should not depend on which political party was in power. Political analyst Professor Mcebisi Ndletyana said: “When we say coalition is the future, we are implying that it is a new phenomenon.” He criticised some coalition partnerships, saying they were opportunistic. “We will have to stop moralising politics.” UDM leader Bantu Holomisa said: “The main focus needs to be to educate voters that never again must we put our votes in one basket.” He suggested that coalitions must be regulated for them to work properly. Pretoria News