In a concerted effort to clamp down on crime in the city, the SAPS and metro police joined forces with Fidelity ADT to conduct a number of high-profile crime prevention operations spanning three days in Garsfontein, Brooklyn, the Moot and Waterkloof. The officers were all over the suburbs, stopping and searching suspected premises and individuals. They identified hot spots and pounced on drug dealers who they said were the catalyst for the increased crime. The areas had been experiencing an increase in armed robberies, house breakings and drug-related crimes. Drugs such as Cat, cocaine, heroin and dagga were confiscated, and several suspects were arrested for the possession of drugs. Resident Jonisai Maromo, who experienced a house break-in in Garsfontein two weeks ago, welcomed the operations. Maromo said residents felt unsafe. He said the robbers had made off with his laptop, cellphone and two television sets. His neighbour was also burgled on the same day in Saldanha Street. “We need more of these raids because we feel unsafe. The police station is a stone’s throw away and security guards are also patrolling, yet we are still being hit,” he said. Maromo said what bothered them the most was not the stolen goods, but the invasion of their privacy. “The thought that people were lurking inside your personal space is the most irritating part. My family still has trouble sleeping,” he said. Lizette Lancaster, the manager of crime and justice information hub at the Institute for Security Studies, said people were more afraid of being robbed in their houses than of being killed or assaulted, with housebreaking and burglary emerging as priority fears before murder. “It appears that the fear is driven by experience, rather than the severity of the crime,” she said. Although the Garsfontein police station saw a decrease in house robberies from 13 this year compared with 30 last year, residents needed much more to be done. Maramo also suggested that private security companies check that their staff were not carrying out inside jobs. “It cannot be that our street is always patrolled, yet we are still being hit; background checks need to be conducted for inside jobs,” he said. Leon Muller, the district manager for Fidelity ADT, said the joint operations had been highly successful, resulting in numerous arrests. In a presentation addressing residents, Muller highlighted the importance of choosing the right security provider. “It is important to properly interrogate any potential private security service provider, before placing your trust in them. Asking the right questions will go a long way to ensuring your peace of mind,” he said. He suggested that questions should be asked about the candidate company’s standing with the industry’s regulatory bodies, the number of patrol vehicles that would service the area, the formal training and preparedness of their officers and safety measures such as armour-plated vehicles and Kevlar helmets and vests for armed response staff. “You cannot simply compare companies on the monthly tariffs they charge,” said Muller.