The academy, which is still in the pipeline, will assist the SAPS to efficiently counter the modus operandi used by criminals. This was divulged by national police commissioner General Khehla Sitole during the closing of the Crime Detection Conference in Erasmia. The gathering was held under the theme “Repositioning Crime Detection for Excellence and Synergy in the SAPS’. Various aspects to improve crime detection methods were discussed. “We trust that this opportunity will lead to deliberations that will give us sufficient ammunition to enable us to detect crime more effectively, and much earlier.” Scores of guests, including representatives of the departments of Health, Justice and Home Affairs, the National Prosecuting Authority, CSIR, Consumer Goods Council of SA and embassies attended the conference. Sitole said the academy would assist police to stay abreast of criminals' modus operandi. “We have challenges where crime is committed through deep-web transactions.” The academy will offer short-, medium- and long-term programmes and courses. Sitole said criminals were smart and updated and came up with new strategies. When that happened, training standards immediately got outdated and response was slow or delayed. “This academy will do a continuous and sustainable human resources development and research,” he said. “The academy would address challenges in crime detection, strategic collaborations with crime intelligence, forensics and other components.” The conference resolved that combating gender-based violence, taxi and gang violence, kidnapping, political killings and stock theft needed to be a priority. “The conference has reaffirmed the Organised Crime Approach, root cause analysis and modus operandi, cybercrime strategy, recruitment, re-enlistment and retention strategy. We will seek to re-enlist former members to enhance the capacity and capabilities of the crime detection environment.” Crime detection capabilities needed to be capacitated, said Sitole, if the ratio between visible policing and the detectives service was to be addressed. The police were also prioritising strengthening the informer network.