The Smile Foundation, in partnership with LG Electronics Company, yesterday reached out and put smiles on the faces of 11 children living with facial conditions. They went for corrective facial reconstructive surgery during the inaugural Smile Week at Steve Biko Academic Hospital. The hospital’s Dr Solly Selahle said performing the surgery and seeing it become a success brought great joy to surgeons. He said: “Being able to see these children being given an opportunity to have a better life is a rewarding process. “Often parents hide their children from the public and you find that children don’t go to school because of this problem. Once they are operated on they easily mingle with other children.” Selahle said it was challenging for children with defects to play with their peers. “You can imagine that if a child comes with a defect that child will be noticed by other children and it is emotionally taxing for them. With the surgery we try to give them a better look so they can be integrated into society.” Among children awaiting surgery yesterday was 2-year-old Tshimologo Padi from Atteridgeville, who suffers from a bone craniofacial cleft and a cyst on his nose. Dr Kentse Moeketsi said one of Padi’s sinuses was missing, and he had a recurring cyst which they needed to remove. Padi’s mother Kamogelo said she had been looking forward to the surgery since her son was born. “We have been on this journey since his birth, and I am glad that he will finally get the surgery. It has not been easy watching him grow up with this because other children would poke him wanting to see what was happening to him.” Unlike Padi, who was still waiting to go under the knife, 6-year-old Zoey-Lee Venter had already had her cleft lip operated on in the morning. Her mother Retha said she was so happy her child was now going to be “normal” like other children. “Zoey is already in school and some children make fun of her lip, but it will look better now and we are very happy.” Smile Foundation CEO Hedley Lewis said yesterday was about hope and the future. He said he was happy the children now had a future. Lewis said there was a lot of stigma when it came to children with facial abnormalities, and as a result their families were ostracised within communities. “With this programme we are calling on the public to work together to assist families. Hopefully this journey will help break down the stigma and bring families back into their communities,” he added.