Onderstepoort Biological Products (OBP) employees who are on strike anticipate a disease outbreak this rainy season as farmers will not have any vaccination to prevent this. This is due to the protest by employees responsible for the manufacturing of livestock vaccines which prevent and control animal disease that impact on food security, human health and livelihoods. Employees affiliated to the National Union of Public Service and Allied Workers (Nupsaw) have taken to the streets to demonstrate their frustrations against their management and as a result, the production of livestock vaccine manufacturing is at a standstill. Themba Matlala, Nupsaw secretary general said with the rainy season approaching, there will be a lot of outbreaks and as a company they will be failing to ensure that farmers get their products for their livestock. “Our products are not for curing but rather for preventing the outbreaks. We cannot at the time when there’s an outbreak still produce vaccines, we should have the products in stock now so that farmers vaccinate their animals prior to the rainy season. "If that doesn’t happen now it means there will an outbreak which we won’t be able to do anything about,” he said. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Matlala told the Pretoria News that farmers on the continent were at risk against rift valley fever, bluetongue and lumpy skin disease. He said in order for some products to be exported outside the country they needed an OBP vaccination certificate and now that the production is affected, even farmers in Botswana will not receive any vaccines. He said the impact of the strike might not be felt now but it will be felt in about four months time. “This is because some products take a minimum of two months to produce and if we miss that two days of production now, it will be felt in about six months time.  But we have managers who don’t see that because they don’t serve the organisation,” Matlala said. The group protesting outside their offices in Onderstepoort demanded a 7.5% salary increase across the board for the 2018/2019 financial year. They demanded an implementation of a housing allowance of R3 000, medical subsidy of R2 500 and a danger allowance among other things. Nupsaw chairperson, Matshepo Matlejoane said they needed a danger allowance as it was in line with the hygiene survey conducted on the site. “We are working with dangerous products and it is our view that we should be given that provision as we are exposed to dangerous products which are not safe for us. Also at the moment only employees transferred from the Department of Agriculture are receiving the medical aid subsidy as per their transfer but those who have been working at OBP since forever are not getting any subsidy,” she said. Matlejoane said it was not fair that employees who performed the same job had different benefits