The call was made by DA MP Bronwynn Engelbrecht, who yesterday led a picket by DA Student Organisation (Daso) students in Pretoria. The group sought to convince Minister of Higher Education and Training Naledi Pandor to intervene in the acts of violence at the institution. Demonstrating outside the Department of Higher Education and Training in the city, the group said some students had disrupted classes at the Soshanguve campus from the time student Katlego Monareng was shot and killed, allegedly by police, last month. Police had been deployed to contain unrest which followed suspected irregularities in the SRC elections. Engelbrecht said: “We call on the department to assist the university in finding a lasting and peaceful solution to ensure that our youth can continue their studies in a safe and peaceful environment. “The DA believes that classes must be resumed as a matter of urgency, but without any violence on campus. “Our students have the right to defend our hard won freedom, but to do it peacefully while respecting the rights of others.” Protesting students had been threatening and intimidating students who did not want to take part in the demonstrations, basically violating their right to education, she said. Engelbrecht said it was time for Pandor, parents and all political parties to extend messages to students and discourage them from disrupting classes or the institution may be forced to close the campus for the rest of the year. The university also failed the students because the company it appointed to run the elections caused the problem when one of its officials was allegedly found in possession of a big box full of ballot papers, she added. “Students could have followed due process but they were violent and turned the ballot papers upside down. “The police were called in they fired a few shots and when the students ran away unfortunately one of the students was shot.” Daso chairperson at the campus Thabo Malusi said: “We want classes to resume and those students who want to protest to respect our right to education. They should not force us out of classes or intimidate us when we choose not to protest. "We are calling on Pandor to save our future," Malusi added. University spokesperson Willa de Ruyter said management had suspended students who had disrupted academic activities. The students would undergo disciplinary hearings. Classes remained suspended until further notice, and the university had obtained a court interdict against disruptive students on Friday and was enforcing it, De Ruyter said. The protesting students want the Independent Police Investigative Directorate (Ipid) to find and arrest the officer or officers who allegedly killed Monareng. They also want police to refrain from using live ammunition to contain protests at institutions of tertiary education and stop using force to intervene in student matters. Last, they have demanded that the university commit to building the dead student’s parents a decent house in the family’s Bushbuckridge base.