MMC for Health Sakkie du Plooy said the City had temporarily suspended the Food Bank in order to conduct stock-taking. He said that during this time the City would also be checking if various non-profit organisations had the right documentation and that the food was reaching the right people. However, the Tshwane Homeless Forum said it was not notified why the services were suspended or for how long. Chairperson Stephen de Beer said the City had not communicated anything to them; instead some of their members learnt of the suspension after they were turned away from the Food Bank to collect their monthly supplies. De Beer said all they were told was that the Food Bank would be suspended until further notice. He said the homeless organisations that banked on the service were more especially concerned about the chronically dependent people and recovering substance abusers on their treatment programmes. “The former users are on methadone and that means they need a good diet in conjunction with the medication they are taking.” Tebogo Mpufane of Homeless NPO Kopano Manyano said their situation was dire as they had limited supplies left to help the hundreds of homeless people who knock on their door for help. Mpufane said that although they had a tuckshop they used which could spare them 14 loaves of bread it was not an adequate meal. He said that in their reserves all they had left was mealie meal, fish oil, soap and soya. “That is all we have that could probably last us for the next two weeks. We just won’t be able to give the homeless a full meal then.” But Du Plooy said the City was not aware of the programmes run by the organisations and was under no obligation to provide food for former drug users on programmes. He said the City simply provided normal food and that stock-taking was necessary. In the interim the organisations would have to make other plans, as the City had never said the Food Bank would be for forever, and the organisations had simply assumed it would. “They can’t blame us. But we are endeavouring to include fresh fruit and vegetables.”