With rapid change bringing increasing uncertainty about the future, particularly for emerging markets like South Africa, the introduction of the new draft White Paper on Science and Technology could not have come a moment later. The first national White Paper was introduced by Science and Technology Minister Mmamoloko Kubayi-Ngubane this week. Kubayi-Ngubane said the new policy document was meant to focus on ensuring that the country benefited from science, technology and innovation for economic growth, social development and transformation. She said this was particularly important as traditional jobs were already being lost due to automation and traditional commerce being disrupted by the move to online, just-in-time for personalised services and products. “The possibilities are exciting and the implications vast. However, science, technology and innovation lie at the heart of the preparation for this emerging future. “South Africa therefore needs to build on progress in areas such as biotechnology, nanotechnology, advanced manufacturing, and ICT research and innovation,” Kubayi-Ngubane said. Kubayi-Ngubane said the White Paper would serve to use policy intervention to accelerate skills development, leverage ICT, commit to openness, and support inter- and transdisciplinary research. As such, the White Paper, according to Kubayi-Ngubane, will set the high-level long-term policy direction for the next five to 15 years. Once the Cabinet has approved it, following interaction with stakeholders, it would be implemented through regularly updated decadal plans, she said. Plans would be based on performance evaluation and foresight as well as collaborative planning with relevant business sectors and government departments, Kubayi-Ngubane added. For now, however, the White Paper has been made available for public consultation, and the public has 30 days to make inputs. Following that, comments will be tabled at a summit on November 9 to engage stakeholders before the final document is sent to the Cabinet for approval. The White Paper is available on www.dst.gov.za