Khayalami Security stated in papers before the Gauteng High Court, Pretoria, that Tshwane Affected Operators Investments (respondent), with whom it had entered into an agreement regarding the security services, was “trying to get rid of them". Kabelo Mothapo, the operations director of Khayalami, said the respondent claimed that they (the applicant) were in breach of the contract. This, he said, was in spite of Khayalami's responses to each and every complaint levelled against it. The respondent company represents the taxi industry in Tshwane. This industry has been negatively affected by the implementation of the BRT system. The City of Tshwane, after negotiations with the taxi industry, agreed that the Tshwane Affected Operators Investment company be formed. It was also agreed that specific services relating to the bus service, be awarded to this company. It included security and cleaning services. As the respondent could not immediately deliver security services, it contracted Khayalami to provide such in the interim. Mothapo said it had entered into an agreement for a fixed period of 36 months with the respondent, but it had received a letter earlier this month that the services were being terminated. Khayalami was told that it had to remove its guards from the buses this week. He said the respondent mentioned at least seven alleged breaches of the contract. According to Mothapo the applicant had responded to each gripe and pointed out that they did comply with the contract. One of the issues was that the respondent wanted proof that 70% of staff resources were sourced from the Tshwane Taxi Industry. Mothapo said they were committed in this regard and did comply with this request. He said the respondent was simply trying to find fault and if the contract was terminated, it would leave their 62 guards without jobs. The respondent said it was of great importance that affected taxi operators had to be absorbed into the operations of the applicant so as to address the loss of taxi routes due to the bus operations. It was said that the applicant failed to employ 70% of its guards from the affected taxi industry and it failed to provide proof that its guards had been screened. The court ordered that the contract should continue, pending arbitration proceedings.