The aircraft will be showcased at the African Aerospace and Defence Expo (AAD2018) which wil be opened at the Air Force Base Waterkloof today by President Cyril Ramaphosa. The show, which goes on until Sunday, is set to wow defence and business people looking to trade, as well as civilians wanting entertainment. Trading will be conducted until Friday and the show will be open to the public on Saturday and Sunday. The aircraft - Ahrlac, Mwari and Bronco II - were built to face the challenges of a fast-changing world, while still being able to accommodate the future. The aircraft can be used for various missions such as reconnaissance, safety and security, pilot training or policing, and anti-poaching, among other things. While Ahrlac is an unarmed aircraft, Mwari is an armed, military version. Mwari is a new, light multirole aircraft being developed by the Paramount Group for armed forces across the globe. The Mwari project was unveiled in May, 2016 and the aircraft already has its first customer. Ivor Ichikowitz, the executive chairman of the Paramount Group, said it was a great achievement that it already had its first customer for the aircraft. “With every new aircraft development programme, there are always complexities associated with making sure you keep ahead of the curve. “Managing a development programme and keeping in mind that you have to accommodate time for stuff to go wrong is not an easy thing to achieve.” Ichikowitz said most African innovation was driven by need, while innovation in the Western world was driven by profit. He said the development of Mwari began with the company innovating in order to solve a problem, and ended up with the best product.He mentioned that one of the biggest challenges in an asymmetrical warfare environment was that one often does not know who the enemies are, where they are, and what equipment they are using. “There wasn’t a product in the world that allowed one to create air superiority so that you could go and understand such things. “In order to be able to have such information, you had to buy different aircraft, manufactured for different abilities. “We had to manufacture an aircraft with the find, fix and finish role. Mwari has all the factors and it was made in a way that was cost effective,” said Ichikowitz.