On Monday, the municipality resolved to launch an investigation into the three-year deal. The decision was taken at a special council meeting convened to deal with the matter and fate of city manager Dr Moeketsi Mosola, who is accused of not following supply chain management regulations in awarding the tender to GladAfrica. In November last year, GladAfrica secured the contract to assist the City in rolling out capital infrastructure projects. Yesterday, the company said it had decided to request the Gauteng Ethics Advisory Council to probe the process it undertook in bidding for the contract in question. “As a growing South African-owned company with a responsibility to over 216 staff, we are concerned that these inaccurate media reports are negatively impacting on our business and our professional standing,” GladAfrica said. The company further indicated that it was willing to subject itself to the looming investigation initiated by the City. “We welcome the council resolution as we believe this will put to rest any doubt regarding the process followed. We offer our full co-operation and support to the process.” It criticised the first report published by a weekend newspaper last month, saying it contained “grossly inaccurate information, portraying our company in a negative light and harming our good name in the process”. According to the company, the story “insinuated unethical practices regarding the process which led to our appointment”. The company also criticised other news reports subsequent to a media briefing by Mosola to clarify the process followed by officials in appointing GladAfrica to provide project management support. “The City further made the relevant procurement information available to the public. “Despite these efforts, negative media reports continued to wrongly and unfairly implicate GladAfrica in perceived wrongdoing,” the company said. It expressed confidence that the probe initiated by the council would bring closure to this matter and help in the restoration of its good name and reputation built over 16 years. “The company continues to inculcate a culture of good corporate governance practices among all our employees. “We shall not compromise on carrying this principle with us wherever we go.”