According to team leader Johannes de Vries, the new regulations in terms of solar panel size posed some challenges in the design and manufacture of the solar car. The focus was on increased aerodynamics as well as reducing the weight and size of the car, since there was less solar energy available for it. He added that most of the mechanical components for Sunchaser 3 were manufactured in-house at TUT. Time Square is the starting point for the event, and this year’s challenge welcomes four international teams and strong local contenders, all competing for the trophy. Most of the teams are from universities, giving students the chance to apply their engineering education. Over the years, the Sasol Solar Challenge has inspired students to develop new technologies, and they have contributed to core research on solar technology, including the manufacturing of solar cells, their casing, converters, controllers and electronics. The research done by solar teams has become invaluable to the energy industry. This year’s challenge features innovative cars with hand-woven solar panels, sophisticated weather monitoring systems and 3D-printed parts. The cars will also boast more efficient electrical systems and batteries. From today the cars - some worth over $7million (R101m) each - will be on display at Sun Arena, Time Square. The display will be open to the public from 9am to 3pm. There is no entry fee. Schools and other interested people are encouraged to visit the Sun Arena to see the cars before they embark on the challenging 2500km route through mountains, deserts, cities and small towns to Stellenbosch in the Western Cape. Taking advantage of loops in the route that teams are allowed to repeat as many times as they’re able to, top teams will clock close to 5000km. An award ceremony will take place at Sun International’s GrandWest in Cape Town on September 30. Time Square general manager Brett Hoppe said: “We are delighted to play host to the start of the 2018 Sasol Solar Challenge which tests the limits of energy innovation and technology. In an era of growing environmental consciousness, driven by the pressing need to use resources more efficiently, it is exciting to witness innovators creating and testing solutions that could support sustainability,” he said.