Pretoria - The struggle by indigenous people to reclaim the "stolen" knowledge about some medicinal plants must be intensified, said a Mamelodi-based traditional healer Ephraim Mabena. Mabena spoke to the Pretoria News during the three-day international conference on indigenous knowledge hosted at Menlyn on Tuesday. He said it was important to protect indigenous knowledge because it was a way of life for locals. He had partnered with the University of Pretoria, which sent students to him to learn about how traditional healers identified medicinal plants. "We also teach them that our philosophy as traditional healers is governed by the spirit of ubuntu (humanity)," Mabena said. He cited that traditional plants such as Rooibos had "long been stolen" by europeans from the indigenous people. "The so-called professors, who are white, stole knowledge from our people taking advantage that the knowledge holders cannot write," he said. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. He bemoaned that some overseas scholars had the tendency of not acknowledging holders of indigeneous knowledge. He called for the government to celebrate indigenous knowledge holders by erecting statues for cultural activists like Credo Mutwa. Addressing at least 250 delegates at the conference, Department of Science and Technology Ministe,r Mmamoloko Kubayi-Ngubane, said the protection of indigenous knowledge bill, awaiting to be signed into law by President Cyril Ramaphosa would go a long way in recognising knowledge owned by local communities. "The primary objective of the Indigenous Knowledge (IK) Bill is to facilitate the protection of IK, and the restoration and recognition of IK relating to, and owned by, the indigenous communities of South Africa. The bill will provide South Africa and the region an opportunity to protect its IK and cultural heritage," she said.