The special council convened to deal the notice of intention to suspend Mosola spared him to a certain extent; it resolved that he remain in office while an investigation into allegations of tender irregularities against him is ongoing. Executive mayor Solly Msimanga wanted his head of administration suspended pending the outcome of the investigation, but his hands were tied. In this regard, it can also be concluded that the DA-led administration did its best to hold the city manager accountable for allegedly awarding the multibillion rand tender without following rules and regulations. However, without the numbers in council, it was always going to be difficult; more so because Msimanga’s government had to rely on support from either the ANC or DA to push the motion through. Without the numbers, Msimanga could only watch helplessly as his motion was amended and subsequently approved in its new format. Instead of being barred from Tshwane House for fear that he could interfere with the witnesses, as recommended by the mayor, Mosola stayed put and will go about business as usual. Only EFF and ANC councillors know why they adopted this stance, and it remains to be seen how the city manager will work with people who could be lined up to testify against him. This will create an uncomfortable atmosphere for either party, and it leaves room for interference and manipulation. According to “flies on the wall”, there were differences of opinions during caucus of the two opposition parties, with other councillors pushing for the motion to be supported. The chief operating officer was, meanwhile, tasked with appointing an independent investor to look into allegations that he did not follow due process in entering into a contact to oversee infrastructure with GladAfrica on behalf of the metro. The nature of allegations against Mosola has also since come to light. He sought to appoint a service provider to manage the City’s capital projects in terms of a regulation which allows for procurement secured under a contract by another organ of state. In the process, the City partially adopted a panel from the Development Bank of South Africa and proceeded to solicit bids from selected service providers which led to the appointment of GladAfrica. It is alleged he was in possession of a legal opinion from senior counsel who cautioned that the process followed was unlawful. The contract was in excess of R200000 and a long-term contract, which necessitated the procurement by way of an open or closed formally competitive bidding process. If is further claimed that the recommendation of the dedicated committee may have been amended after the fact before approval and that group heads, who raised their concern regarding the contract, were victimised, and stripped of their functional and delegated powers in order that lower-ranking officials were empowered to take over the task. After seeking answers from Mosola, the mayor was still not convinced. He then decided it necessary that the whole transaction be independently and objectively investigated. It can only be hoped the investigation, despite Mosola being in the midst and persistent claims of intimidation, will be free and fair - and the investigator was not chosen for individual agendas. Mudzuli is Pretoria News assistant editor. He writes in a personal capacity.