According to the project leaders, this was untrue. They also denied that the project was stopped by some business people who demanded work during the construction phase. The statement had been made by Executive Mayor Solly Msimanga, as reported by the Pretoria News on Monday. Ward councillor Andries Dinale said there were continuous engagements with the project’s steering committee to get it back on track. According to Dinale, members of the committee would soon compile a report regarding damages caused to equipment on site after the project was stopped in May last year. “The project will be starting soon, and by the end of this week we would know when it is likely to start again,” he said. He allayed worries harboured by some of the 160 workers, whose contracts were terminated, by saying that they would get their jobs back when the project starts again. “There is no one who is going to lose their job. Some people have been worried that they are no longer going to be part of the project,” he said. Site clerk Tomi Somatse said the project was stopped by the municipality last year because contractors didn’t have the approved building plans. “From May to August last year, the main contractor stopped paying employees and subsequently terminated all their contracts. After August the construction was stopped,” he said. He shared the sentiment that it was untrue that the construction was stopped by a group of disgruntled businesspeople. Somatse said phase one of the project was expected to be completed by February this year, and at least 1 980 people would have been employed. He expressed worry about the ongoing vandalism of structures of the old University Pretoria campus, where BPO is located. “The university structure was vandalised. The roofing, door and window frames were stolen by nyaope boys,” he said. Other stolen items were the main gate, power cables of the two cranes on site and a scaffolding. “Seven people were last week arrested by metro police officers and handed over to the SAPS, but have since been released,”he said. It was envisaged that the entire project would be completed by 2021 during its launch two years ago by former mayor Kgosientso Ramokgopa. The project promised to offer on-site training, technical support and incubators for small, medium and micro-enterprises.