Pretoria - The #NotInMyName SA campaign says it will shut down the Dros restaurant in Silverton if management failed to deliver on promises they made, which included covering medical costs for the 7-year-old girl that was raped. They visited the restaurant on Thursday where the girl was raped in the men’s toilet last Saturday. They were led by their secretary-general Themba Masango. #NotInMyName SA’s Siya Jentile briefed the media after a meeting with the management. He said: “It was important for us to come here and not formulate opinions based on Facebook posts. "We are in contact with the family and all the parties involved and even with Dros. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  “We told them that it is important that they engage us and failure to do so would have resulted in us shutting down this place and it was a very good move that they engaged us. "Dros has promised us that they will be and are taking this matter forward, failure to do so will result in us taking other necessary steps,” he said. The secretary-general Masanga said: “We came here to engage with the management; we wanted to find out directly what actually transpired, what measures they are putting in place to make sure an issue like this never happens again and also to take up with them the statement they released. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  “The manager has made promises to us, I don’t know whether it's because of the pressure he is getting from the public,” he said. The man allegedly preyed on the girl and later followed her to the toilet, where he raped her. The 20-year-old man made a brief appearance in the Pretoria Magistrate’s Court on Tuesday on a charge of rape. The matter was postponed to October 2 for further investigation and the accused will remain in custody.