The National Education, Health and Allied Workers Union (Nehawu) led a staff protest calling for President Cyril Ramaphosa to suspend Zokwana, who was being investigated for alleged corruption and a violation of the executive ethics code. EFF deputy president Floyd Shivambu lodged the complaint with Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane after news about the allegations surfaced. Mkhwebane last month informed the department that she was investigating allegations that Zokwana had received a R300000 bribe to unduly interfere in the granting of fishing licences, particularly those of abalone, to companies linked to businessman Deon Larry. Workers said there were numerous other grievances that Zokwana failed to resolve in the department, which led to them chasing him away from the offices earlier this year. They said security was poor to the extent that cars were being stolen, and those challenges were worsened by Zokwana's decision to withdraw Mlengana's delegation of authority. Nehawu branch chairperson Ivan Ramogale said Zokwana collapsed the branch's administration by “unlawfully” withdrawing Mlengana's powers. “He did that because the DG was going to discipline a senior who was close to Zokwana.” Mlengana said it was true the minister had taken his powers. He said, at some point, the minister asked him to stop investigations into the senior official. However, the minister's spokesperson Khaye Nkwanyana rubbished the allegations and said they were fabricated by some union members and senior officials close to Mlengana, who were suspects in the corruption the minister wanted to expose. He said Zokwana made submissions to Mkhwebane and was not worried about the investigation because the allegations were made by people at the Arcadia branch with an agenda to hide corruption. “The minister wanted the director-general to punish officials who were implicated in a forensic report on corruption, but he refused and that's why the minister took his powers. “The minister wrote to the Presidency to explain that the relationship between himself and the director-general was irreconcilable. The president will address the matter."