Katlego Monareng was shot and killed allegedly by police deployed to restore peace and order when students clashed during the elections. His death sparked outrage and protests and the suspension of classes last week. Students refused to return to class after the official mourning period when they returned from the funeral, saying they had been shocked by the state of Monareng’s home. Yesterday they said they had informed campus management that TUT should build the poor Bushbuckridge family a decent home as part of taking responsibility for hiring an incompetent company to run SRC elections. Student leader and former SRC deputy president Sithembiso Kashandu said students were shocked by the poor conditions of the family home when they went to bury Monareng last Saturday. “We are saying comrade Katlego was his family’s last hope to get out of poverty, but since TUT hired an incompetent company to handle our elections, they should build Katlego’s mother a decent home. “Katlego was a final year law student with lots of potential and he was going to build his mother a better house. Now he is no more. TUT must help. We are not even asking for a specific ‘big house’, we just want something decent for that family.” University management was hoping that classes would resume as normal on all its campuses yesterday while the Independent Police Investigative Directorate continued investigations into the student’s death. University spokesperson Willa de Ruyter said classes resumed successfully on other campuses, except Soshanguve, but campus management committees were able to intervene and contain demonstrations in the morning yesterday. Regarding the request for a house, De Ruyter said a task team would be convened to look into the recommendations by the students and the feasibility of all the requests. Kashandu added: “To our parents and the public, we want to reiterate that we are of the view that classes should continue because delays could affect our exam schedule. "We raised numerous grievances with management on Monday but this issue of the house is a priority. We want TUT to commit itself and hopefully by Monday classes will be back to normal.”