Speaking after Woods ended a five-year victory drought at the Tour Championship, “The Golden Bear” said he thought the 42-year-old would be able to compete at the highest level for another decade or so. Woods looked destined to surpass Nicklaus when he clinched his 14th major at the 2008 US Open before his career hit the rails after a sex scandal and then a debilitating back injury. Nobody has ever previously won more than one major after turning 43, as Woods will in December, but Nicklaus thinks times are changing. “With today’s equipment, and the way the guys take care of themselves, I think they could play well into their 50s,” he told the Golf Channel. “Maybe Tiger’s got another 40 majors to play. “Out of 40 majors can he win five of them, I don’t know? “He’s playing well enough. It depends how much he wants to work at it, how interested he is, and long he wants to make a commitment to do that.” Nicklaus won his 16th and 17th majors at the age of 40, but then endured a six-year drought before claiming the 1986 Masters in what proved a fitting climax to his career. Many had already written Nicklaus off by then, but he did not really care, shrugging off the negativism as noise to be ignored. “What people say doesn’t mean anything,” he said. “It’s what you think. “What’s important is what Tiger was thinking. I’m proud of him. He’s worked very hard to get his golf game back. “He even worked really hard to get the five inches between his head thinking the right way again.” With the massive gallery chanting his name as they stampeded the final fairway in scenes reminiscent of British Opens of yesteryear, Woods moved within two victories of Sam Snead’s all-time record of 82 PGA Tour titles. “I was having a hard time not crying coming up the last hole,” Woods said. “All of a sudden it started really hitting me I was going to actually win the tournament. “I’ve been sitting on 79 (wins) for five years now. To get 80 is a pretty damn good feeling.” Meanwhile, Justin Rose lost the battle but won the war, clinching the FedExCup and the $10 million prize that accompanies it with a birdie at the final hole. Woods would have claimed the PGA Tour’s season-long points race as well if Rose had not birdied the par-five 18th at East Lake. Rose started the final round in equal second place three shots behind Woods but could only manage a three-over-par 73 to finish equal fourth for the tournament. “It was a bit of a slow death out there for me today. It was a totally different vibe,” said Rose, who two weeks ago ascended to the world number one ranking at age of 38. “It was the weirdest day. Obviously plan A was to try to win the tournament and plan B was to do enough to win the FedExCup.” The Englishman also extended his congratulations to 42-year-old Woods. “The world of golf is really proud of you now and super excited about your game,” Rose said. “It’s nice for us old guys to get a little moment in the sun.” - Reuters