The row erupted after a taxi operator was fatally shot by unknown suspects after working hours. The bone of contention between Semunye and Matamakata taxi operators was due to a dispute over the use of a route from Hammanskraal to Marapyane. For years, the affiliates of Matamakata have accused their counterparts of having illegally acquired permits for the route. Leaders of Matamakata, who refused to be named, believe the shooting incident was used to intimidate them. They claimed their rivals wanted to stop them from using the route at all costs, saying they had orchestrated two killings of their members. Police spokesperson Margrete Molane said the latest shooting happened last Wednesday evening near the Kopanong taxi rank. The taxi driver had just parked his vehicle by the roadside when he was ambushed by two men, who shot at him. The gunmen, believed to be working fora rival organisation, were driving in two kombis. Molane said the operator died at the scene. A passenger in his vehicle sustained serious injuries after he was also shot at. The wounded man was rushed to hospital, where he is being treated for injuries. “The suspects are unknown and we don’t know the motives of the shooting at this stage,” Molane said. Cases of murder and attempted murder were opened. Police investigations were under way and the suspects were still on the run. Semunye deputy chairperson Monakisi Masinga quashed claims that his association was behind the shooting. “Why are they suspecting that it is our people who killed their member when they don’t have proof? “We have had two of our taxi drivers shot dead recently and one is in the ICU after he was admitted to hospital following a shooting incident. We have never wanted to blame anyone because we don’t have proof,” Masinga said. He said it was untrue that taxi operators from his association illegally acquired route permits. “They have been saying that we acquired our permits illegally, but they are unable to prove that,” he said. He said his association has official documents to support that it has legal permits from the department.