“FIX your buildings in 48 hours or else we start evacuating employees from unsafe City of Tshwane buildings,” - warned the regional ANC. The ANC in Tshwane have given Executive Mayor Solly Msimanga exactly 48 hours in order to produce documents verifying buildings owned by the City comply with the required building regulations and Occupational Health Safety Act. This as ANC regional chairperson, Dr. Kgoshi Maepa, hand picked and conducted oversight inspections of three City buildings he said the city had failed to ensure complied with the necessary fire safety regulations. At a media briefing at Tshwane House earlier, Maepa said while Msimanga was running around shutting down other departmental buildings he had neglected to indicate issues plaguing Tshwane owned buildings. The three buildings in question are BITTS Building on Church Square, Isivuno Municipal offices on Lilian Ngoyi Street and BKS Building on Pretorius street. Currently the BITTS building houses the Department of Economic Development and Transport; while the Department of Finance occupies the BKS building. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  And Isivuno houses city planning staff, corporate and shared devices staff, utility services workers and the Chief Operations Officer. “The BITTS building is uninhabitable, doesn't have fire extinguishers, and they were last serviced in 2016. So if there is a fire there those employees are going to die because there is no evacuation plan and those on wheelchairs won’t get out.” “The mayor went out of his way to highlight buildings of the ANC that are unsafe but his own employees don't have that benefit. Which lives are important?” Maepa said the last inspection by an independent fire inspector conducted on the building on September 27, 2016; had indicated that within 30 days, "break glass" panels with a key were to be replaced with locking mechanisms approved by the Fire Department.