The Gauteng High Court, Pretoria, threw the ball back into the hands of Justice Minister Michael Masutha yesterday for what was the third time the minister has had to reconsider parole for Walus. On each of the previous occasions, he refused. Judge Selby Baqwa yesterday reviewed and set aside the latest refusal by the minister to place the 63-year-old convicted killer on parole. He referred the matter back to Masutha, and said Masutha must, within 120 days of this order, reconsider parole. The judge further ordered that Masutha had to make his decision after Walus was given the opportunity to respond to a previous report by the Parole Board, in which it was stated that Walus regretted killing Hani the husband and father, but that he did not regret that he had shot Hani the communist. The report also stated that Walus had not completed certain recommended courses in jail, while Walus had provided proof that he had completed these courses. It was on the strength of this report that the minister refused parole. Walus was given 30 days by Judge Baqwa to respond to the report, while the SACP and Limpho Hani have 30 days to comment on Walus’s responses. SACP spokesperson Alex Mashilo meanwhile said their position had not changed and they would fight parole. “We remain firm that Walus has to remain in jail. Nothing will divert us from this. This has been a long and emotional journey for the SACP and the Hani family. They lost a father and husband and the SACP has lost a leader. “Our stance from the start was that we want a full disclosure of the truth. We believe he does not deserve to be released. He is an unrepentant murderer.” Hani’s widow, Limpho, who was in court, refused to speak to the media. Walus earlier asked the court to place him on parole following Masutha's refusal to give the green light for his release. Walus, who has spent 25 years of his life sentence for the April 1993 killing in the Kgosi Mampuru II Correctional Centre, said if he was released he wanted to go back to Poland to be reunited with his family. The director-general of Home Affairs in 2016 issued a notice for Walus’s deportation once he was released. But the department admitted this was done under the misunderstanding that Walus could not serve his parole time in South Africa if he was illegally in the country.