“The notion of whether Parliament will relocate or not will be dependent on what members say, how much it will cost and there would have to be projections. “In 2004, when Mpahlwa consultants were employed they were estimating R2.6 billion. That was in 2004 and they had a model on how it would look like,” Tyawa said when briefing the joint standing committee on financial management of Parliament. In May, National Assembly Speaker Baleka Mbete announced that service provider Pamoja Pty Ltd had been appointed to conduct a six-month socio-economic and impact study. This was in response to former president Jacob Zuma, who in 2016 said the government could save billions if it did not have to fly and accommodate government officials and politicians from South Africa’s administrative capital, Pretoria, to Cape Town, the country’s legislative capital. Proposals to relocate Parliament from Cape Town were first mooted in the 1990s, but plans were shelved after strong opposition from the ruling ANC in the Western Cape province. Critics of the move, including the Cape Chamber of Commerce and Industry, have said it could have a negative impact on businesses in the Mother City, which it said could run into billions of rand. Tyawa said Zuma had last year asked Parliament to provide its own input on the cost of remaining in Cape Town. She said the study they commissioned would detail exactly what would happen if the national legislature was relocated. “If we relocate, it is not just moving Parliament, it is moving 494 MPs. “It is moving 1300 support staff and their families,” Tyawa said. “It is finding spaces and places and ensuring that location is closer to offices,” she said. She also said the study would include inquiring from parliamentarians as stakeholders on the impact relocation would have on Cape Town. “In six months' time, meaning by January, we will receive a report that will be shared with the committee and, of course, the executive authority just to show whether there are other ways.” Tyawa said that even if Parliament remained in Cape Town, it would need to have an efficient and enabling environment. “We need to have committee rooms that are functional. We do need to have recorders for archiving the work of Parliament that study is going to look at a whole range of issues.” She said much detail was expected in January because they need to have space for MPs. “Even if you relocate anywhere else, you need accommodation for members. It does not matter where Parliament is located.”