Police Minister Bheki Cele also warned his top officials in the police yesterday that they face being fired if the situation does not improve in a year. Members of parties in the portfolio committee on police said they were shocked at the spiralling crime rate and that the police were not fixing their own house. Cele said murders had increased from 19000 to 20000, which is a 6.9% increase. The head of crime statistics in the police, Norman Sekhukhune, said the number of murders had increased for the sixth year in a row. Sexual offences increased from 49000 in the 2016/17 financial year to 50000 this year. Rapes increased from 39825 to 40035 this year. Cash-in-transit heists increased by 56.6% - from 162 cases to 238. The ANC caucus in Parliament said it was concerned by the increase in crime. The IFP said the increase in violent crime and murders was an indication that South Africa needed the death penalty. IFP chief whip Narend Singh described the statistics as chilling. He said it was of concern that Cele had informed the nation that the “murder rate borders on a war zone”. ANC Chief Whip Jackson Mthembu said the police must jack up their systems. “While we appreciate the SAPS’ continued efforts to fight crime, the upward trajectory in the murder rate, which has increased by 6.9%, is a matter of grave concern. “This translates to a shocking 57 people being murdered every day,” said Mthembu. Chairperson of the portfolio committee Francois Beukman said a new approach was needed to clamp down on crime. “What is important is that the murder increase of 6.9% is alarming and unacceptable. We need strategic interventions. It is clear from the statistics we need specialised units,” said Beukman. Zakhele Mbhele of the DA said the police were facing a shrinking budget and fewer members on the ground. He said it was ironic that police spent R9.1million to protect one VIP and R1500 for every citizen. But Cele denied this, saying the VIP unit is under-funded and most of the houses of ministers are not protected. He said he gets calls from ministers about this issue all the time. Freedom Front Plus leader Pieter Groenewald said it was of concern that there has been an increase in the murder rate over the past six years. He said violent crime had taken hold of South Africa. This was unacceptable. Cele said the last time police had the edge on rampant crime was in 2011 when the number of murders was about 15000, but it had been a downward spiral since. The Police and Prisons Civil Rights Union also slammed the high crime rate, saying it was unacceptable that the murder rate was on the rise. It said the fact that there has been an increase of 6.9% in murders showed there were many firearms in the hands of criminals in the country.