Despite the impasse and confusion, management remains adamant that exams will start on November 12 as planned. The situation has left students in limbo; they claim there had been no communication between the university and student leaders regarding the situation. University spokesperson Willa de Ruyter said that since academic activities for students were suspended indefinitely, there was no engagement with students leaders. “However, the Soshanguve community has been identified as a key-stakeholder group towards stabilising the situation at those two campuses,” said De Ruyter. She added that a meeting with communities neighbouring the Soshanguve North and South campuses would take place this week. There had been problems over the year at the two campuses with the taverns which line the main entrances being singled out for contributing to the lawlessness at the university. Law enforcement agencies, the City of Tshwane and other stakeholders have previously spoken out about this, but nothing had been done to date. Student leaders said they were unhappy with the lack of communication on the current impasse. SRC deputy president Kevin Phehla said the university was aloof and even hired extra bouncers to keep students out. “At this rate it is difficult to tell when the shutdown is likely to end. There are bouncers at the campuses, which are highly intimidating. We can’t even reach out to management,” he told the Pretoria News. Student leaders complained that bringing in bouncers was a waste of money and they were pleading with management to have a sit-down with the SRC on the matter. Students were also forced to vacate residences after violent protests erupted following the death of Katlego Monareng, a third-level paralegal student. Monareng was allegedly shot by a police officer following a protest against what was perceived as a rigged SRC election in August. EFF Student Command representative Rendani Nematswerani claimed Monareng’s death was caused by reckless management by TUT. TUT and the Independent Police Investigative Directorate have since initiated a forensic investigation, but students said they were not satisfied. “The Independent Police Investigative Directorate as well as the university have instituted a full forensic investigation led by Grant Thornton into allegations of SRC election irregularities that are alleged to have resulted in his (Monareng’s) death. A draft report is expected in October,” said De Ruyter. A contingency plan had been introduced to make up the time lost and ensure students were not disadvantaged. However, student are having none of it and feel there is not enough time, especially since there had been no classes in about a month. Academic activities at other TUT campuses are proceeding as normal.