Nesindande is on the endurance drive across the country with a team of men. Although she is the only woman on the team, she dispelled the myth that women do not have equal opportunities. Yesterday she said opportunities were abundant for women - they just needed to be sought out. “The fact that there are not a lot of women in the engineering and motor space doesn’t necessarily translate into a lack of opportunities. “Maybe women don’t have the passion, but they must not hide behind curtains and cry about the lack of opportunities,” she said. The bubbly 21-year-old mechanical engineering student was responsible for the carbon layout of the team’s car - known as the Sunchaser 3 - a duty she stepped up to and executed masterfully. Although she admits that she had to prove herself and work twice as hard in the team of men, she believes this, in turn, has made her even better at her craft. She said the ratio at the engineering workshop at TUT totally dispelled the myth. “We have four females and three males at the workshop,” she said. She said women had to take charge and stop throwing pity parties. “In fact, feeling sorry for yourself can become downright self-destructive. It makes overcoming adversity difficult - if not impossible - and it keeps you stuck in a rut.” Reiterating her sentiments was Sasol Solar Challenge spokesperson Ashanti Mogesetsi, who said she was all too familiar with the “pity party”. Mogesetsi, a transport economist, said women needed to assume their role and claim their spot, but institutions needed to make women aware of the various opportunities available to them. “Schools, community members, churches and businesses need to create awareness about the equal opportunities,” she said. She said one of the Solar Challenge’s aims was to bring equal opportunities to light. “The solar cars have been making pit stops along the route to encourage scholars to consider studying science, technology, engineering and maths,” she said. Meanwhile, in an interesting turn of events, with only a minute in it, Dutch team Nuon took the lead from the Japanese on the third day of the challenge. Both teams covered an admirable 441.9km, but with a one-minute late arrival time penalty, Tokai will start second on the grid today. The ever-consistent Swiss team, Solar Energy Racers, will once again start third in the line-up at Gariep Dam’s Forever Resorts, having covered 360km. Nine solar cars are battling it out as they try to clock more than 4500km of solar-powered distance. The current record, held by Dutch team Nuon, was set in 2016 at 4716km. South African teams battled with cloudy skies and strong winds, and with more of the same forecast had to make difficult decisions. “The Bloemfontein to Gariep Dam stage was more about strategy than distance for us - and probably was for all the teams,” said Tiaan Oosthuizen, electrical engineer and strategist from the TUT team. “The weather wasn’t in our favour, and we know that it won’t be for the next few days." TUT recovered 164.1km on their first full day back on the road after their earlier setback. On day one, their solar panel was significantly damaged, and was repaired overnight by the dedicated engineers on their team. High school team Sonke Siyakude, from St Alban’s College in Pretoria and St Augustine’s Leap School, completed 40.6km, and the North-West University team 21.8km. Yesterday’s stage from Gariep Dam to Graaff-Reinet saw Hoërskool Middelburg host the control stop area, and schools from the area came to view the cars as part of the Sasol Solar Challenge’s educational drive.