This was revealed at the inquiry into state led by Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo who has summoned all commercial banks to appear before him and testify about the impact state capture had on their business. The commission heard that the Guptas through one of their companies - Westdawn Investments - gave surety to pay the mortgage bond for one of Zuma’s wives’ trust in which she was the sole trustee and her son the sole beneficiary. These shocking details were given yesterday by Ian Sinton, Standard Bank’s former head of legal compliance. Sinton was testifying about the bank’s decision to give notice on April 13, 2016, to terminate the Guptas' banking services after the bank gathered “sufficient evidence” that the family might be involved in illegal financial activities. Sinton told the commission that the other reason for terminating the Guptas' banking services was their decision to take a portion of money - meant for the development of Estina Dairy Farm in the Free State - to Dubai. Sinton told the commission that a few days after serving notice on the Guptas, they were summoned to Luthuli House - ANC headquarters - to account for their decision. The bank was also summoned to a meeting to account to the Inter Ministerial Committee under then mineral resources minister Mosebenzi Zwane who, Sinton said, tried to persuade them to reverse their decision. Regarding the ANC invite, Sinton said: “We found the invitation inappropriate but chose to attend the meeting. Our view was that the ANC was the governing party of the day. It would have been disrespectful not to attend,” Sinton said. The ANC was represented by its former secretary-general Gwede Mantashe, ANC deputy secretary-general Jessie Duarte and Enoch Godongwana, head of ANC subcommittee on economic transformation, who questioned whether their "decision was part of a plan by white monopoly capital to keep black people out of business”. He also said the ANC officials questioned them on whether they got “the instructions to terminate from Stellenbosch”. Sinton said the meeting in Pretoria happened after the ANC meeting but similar points of concern were raised. He said in that meeting Zwane tried to persuade them to reverse their decision and reminded them that their banking licence was given to them by the government. Zwane apparently told the Standard Bank delegation that the government had powers to introduce laws that would make it impossible for Standard Bank to terminate services to its clients. According to Sinton, all these factors were likely to make Standard Bank prone to facilitating fraud, corruption and money laundering which was a direct contravention of laws governing banks around the world.