Lack of communication and resultant confusion of communities desperate for services led to the disruptions, she said. The protests more often than not left massive destruction in their wake and had resulted in the loss of life, she added. “We want to have people who understand their contractual obligations, who know that to keep in line with the principles of the Constitution they have to keep the lines of communication flowing,” she said. Dlodlo spoke to the Pretoria News on the sidelines of a gathering of government stakeholders and private practitioners to agree on and commit to the Batho Pele principles at Unisa. The event marked the launch of the Public Service Commission’s Constitutional Values and Principles seminar, where stakeholders reaffirmed their commitment to the country’s constitutional values and principles. The initiative was aptly themed - Building a Value-driven Public Service through Ethical Leadership for Service Delivery. Dlodlo said: “The major role of the public service is to provide services the public can access through no other body.” She explained that a workforce of 1.3 million employees was solely responsible for issuing birth and marriage certificates, travel documents and facilitate services that no other body could. “We have the responsibility to make sure these run smoothly, and in so doing we must ensure we recruit people with the right prescripts and requirements.” As such these people had to be skilled, trained and counselled when there was a need to deliver on the mandate that was the Constitution. “Constant communication is important now more than ever to curb service delivery protests.” Communication between communities and the three spheres of government would make sure everyone understood that the government had to deliver services and that people had genuine needs. She said community development workers and municipalities had the chief role of communicating with people on the ground and they had to allow communities to talk to them about their needs and frustrations. “They must always be open and honest and never give people the impression something that is not practical will happen. “If, for instance, housing is required and land available is dolomite, they must tell them houses will not be built on dolomite; and if houses can be built, but a delay will be experienced in the provision of electricity that must be clearly stated,” she said. Local government bodies had to then communicate upwards to provincial and national government. “Failure of this leads to a breakdown, which leads to protests.” These could be violent and disruptive, but they bordered not on the phenomenon of demand but on rights and obligations. She said that, in addition, the breakdown of the family institution contributed to the disruptions and damage. “When parents get up in the morning and join others in burning down a clinic what does that teach the child?” This also applied to children watching their parents block roads and preventing them from going to school. “This is the height of moral degeneration.” Public servants had to uphold the principles of Batho Pele, and when they did they lived the Constitution of the land, which, Dlodlo said, was the bible. See page 5