Judge Nomsa Khumalo said that as the matter previously had to stand down because it was not ready to proceed, it had lost its urgency. The judge said the residents could enrol the matter on the normal court roll. Louise du Plessis of Lawyers for Human Rights (LHR) said they would today consider their options, which would include enrolling the matter as an urgent application before the Constitutional Court or asking High Court, Pretoria, Judge President Aubrey Ledwaba for a preferential date. But the fact that the matter was removed from the roll did not mean the SA National Defence Force Minister Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula and two of her officials were off the hook. The lawyers, who represented the ousted community, are set on proceeding with the case in which they ask for an order to commit the minister, Chief of the Army Lieutenant-General Lindile Yam and Marievale base commander Colonel Mafihlwase Mkhize, in their personal capacity, to 120 days' imprisonment. They asked that this be suspended for a year provided they adhered to the order. The LHR said they had failed to comply with a judgment handed down in May, in which it was found that the eviction was illegal. Judge Norman Davis at the time ordered that the evicted families must be restored to their homes within 30 days. He said if the homes were no longer available, the South African National Defence Force had to provide alternative accommodation. Military staff from Marievale were also interdicted from harassing and threatening the residents. But LHR said that to date nothing had been done to comply with the court order. The families were forcefully evicted in November and December last year, and most have since moved into Happiness Village - a settlement near the base where they live in shacks. The trauma of losing their homes continued to haunt them and some still complained of being harassed and intimidated by military staff from the base. On the same day as Judge Davis’s judgment, the minister issued a statement that she respected the order and would abide by it. Lawyers for Human Rights said that more than three months later and nearly a year after the evictions, the residents of Marievale remained displaced and continued to live in precarious conditions. The minister said she had told her staff to see to it that the order was executed. She stated that it was not her fault that this was allegedly not done. It appeared that shortly after the judgment, the homes formerly occupied by the evicted residents were allocated to members of the SANDF. It then offered alternative accommodation to the residents in the form of two open space bungalows. There was no privacy or cooking facilities and limited ablution facilities. Judge Khumalo did not hear the merits of the application yesterday, but she asked the parties to first address her regarding its urgency. Advocate Jina Snyman, on behalf of LHR, argued that eviction is always an urgent matter. She said they could not wait to launch the proceedings before a normal court, as this could take months. But counsel for the SANDF and the minister argued that it was clear that these people were staying somewhere since their eviction. It was denied they are homeless and the judge was told they were offered alternative accommodation, which they had refused.