A case of common assault has been opened against Mosimane following an incident at the end of his club’s 3-3 Absa Premiership draw with AmaZulu in Umlazi on Sunday. Police spokesman in KwaZulu-Natal Lieutenant-Colonel Thulani Zwane confirmed that a case has been opened. “Yes, there’s a case opened. It is a case of a common assault. It was opened at Umlazi police station in D-section. “We are still investigating the case. A 49-year-old male was allegedly assaulted with a clenched fist by a known suspect,” Zwane said. At the end of the match, two Sundowns supporters invaded the pitch and security guards caught them and took them off the field. Mosimane was unhappy with the manner in which the security guards treated the supporters. He tried to pull the supporters from the guards so he could walk them off. That led to a fight. The police reacted to separate Mosimane and the security guards. AmaZulu media officer Brilliant Mkhathini confirmed that a case had been opened. “Yes, it is true the head of our security service provider, Nathi Ngwenya, opened the case after the game. He is the head of Ngwelele Security Services, the company responsible for security at our home matches.” In a post-match interview, Mosimane denied assaulting any security staff. “There were no punches. You are trying to make a scene. Where were the punches?” he asked. “Our supporters, two of them got on to the pitch. What do you do? You usher them out. You don’t drag them like they are criminals. “This thing of showing off that we can drag somebody off the pitch must end,” Mosimane said before explaining what happened in the scuffle. “I was just trying to say to the guy: ‘take him off properly’. That guy wanted to be on television so that his family can see him. It is unbelievable. If the guy resists then you can use other means but they were not resisting. He’s our supporter, let me take him off.” PSL acting chief executive officer Mato Madlala said they were waiting for the report of the match commissioner. Sundowns are still in Durban and will take on Golden Arrows tomorrow.