This was the conclusion of Parliament’s portfolio committee on home affairs, which visited the troubled centre a few days ago. The visit was aimed at assessing the progress made since the launch of the automated asylum system in 2017. After the visit, the committee concluded that law enforcement agencies, including the the SAPS and Tshwane Metro Police Department, had failed to do their duty at the centre. It was also found that criminals were acting with impunity, while law enforcement agents contributed to corruption. The committee members first raised these concerns when they visited the centre last year. This time the committee said it remained concerned that there were criminal elements still operating outside the facility. Just like last year, the officials learnt that the security situation around the precinct had not improved. There were allegations of syndicates operating with impunity. “It is unacceptable that the SAPS and metro police are alleged to be contributing to the challenges around the centre. It is also of concern that people are mugged in full view of police and nothing is done. “We hope that the engagements at a ministerial level will assist in resolving the issue,” said committee chairperson Hlomani Chauke. The committee continues to call for harsher action against officials who are found to be colluding with syndicates to undermine the refugee system. Despite these challenges, the committee welcomed the impact of the automated system on the processing of applicants. “There seems to be a massive improvement in the process as a result of automating the system. The infusion of technology into the system should be strengthened even further to reinforce the current advances,” Chauke emphasised. The committee also said it welcomed the collaboration between the department and the United Nations Refugee Agency in dealing with the Refugee Appeal Board backlogs and ensuring that impediments were removed. The committee said it was of the view that the immigration services inspectorate had to be reinforced to effectively discharge its mandate. “It remains unacceptable that the department (nationally) has only about 700 employees within the inspectorate, a much lower number in comparison to international trends,” Chauke said.