Tsumane said this at the annual SAPS National Police Prayer Day held at the SAPS Tshwane Academy to commemorate Police Safety Month. He said the SAPS couldn't afford to lose another member. He likened losing a member to losing a war against criminals. Since April 1, the police service has lost a total of 34 police officers who were murdered, 13 of them on duty and 21 of them off-duty. “Our annual prayer day is of utmost importance. As members of the SAPS, we perform our police duties in difficult circumstances at times and indeed a prayer and interaction with each other will therefore play a vital role. “Attacks and killings of our police officials on and off-duty remain a grave concern to the management of the police. "Although many policies, strategies and proactive measures are in place to curb these attacks and killings, much more needs to be done. We need to realise that this does not only affect our members physically when they die but our members who stay behind and families as well.” He told those in attendance to regard the prayer service with the respect and seriousness that it deserved. “This is where we can unite in prayer and declare spiritual war (against those criminals) who disrespect life,” Tsumane said. He cautioned the men and women in blue to remember that criminals never rest, which was why they needed to pray faithfully. Lieutenant-General Sharon Jephta said the SAPS National Police Prayer Day was a way for colleagues to seek guidance for its members in their daunting daily tasks. “We are on the brink of the festive season People will think it is a joyous time, but police officers have another call. Unfortunately we are supposed to be in prevention mode but we are going to go into combat mode. Combat mode is where we have got to protect our community and ourselves.” Protocol was avoided at the service. Tears flowed and members of the police service roamed around the church hall earnestly praying for the safety of themselves and their colleagues. Pretoria News