TIME is running out for land invaders who built 61 shacks on an open space in Morula View last Month, said ward 22 councillor Tshepo Motaung. Motaung said these land grabbers clashed with the mortgage paying residents of Morula View when they erected their shacks on a space the size of a community park early last month and an eviction could take place anytime from now. “Most of the people have already abandoned their shacks over fears of a looming eviction since the City appointed a service provider to remove them. Those who remain behind are basically not staying there anymore. We’ll just break down those shacks. “These people knew that what they did was wrong because they did not want to follow the RDP beneficiary list from my ward even when I told them that there were houses under construction near ODI Community Hospital,” said Motaung. He said he was going to have a meeting with Morula View residents to update them about the pending eviction. They said they were already losing hope that the shacks would be removed as per the promise by MMC for Environmental Management, Mike Mkhari. Morula View residents, some who own double storey houses, said the shacks were depreciating the value of their property. They said everyone deserved space to live but they could not tolerate shacks built right inside their community. Mkhari visited the community several times to assure residents that the City would remove the shacks. On his second visit to the community, Mkhari told residents that the service provider was still recruiting trained people to remove the illegal shacks in Morula View and other areas in the City. Community leader Ady Moima said: “We are running out of patience because we want these shacks gone before the people settle here comfortably and then start protesting inside the community to demand service delivery. “Already there is a protest taking place whereby Boikhutsong Informal Settlement residents are demanding service delivery. We do not want a situation whereby these ones start to a protest here, especially because originally they come from Boikhutsong. We hope MMC Mkhari will deliver on his promise.” Complaints by Morula View residents Values of their houses will depreciate Could provide criminals hiding space Service delivery protests could erupt in their community Illegal power and water connections could result Illegal electricity connections could shock children The tension could result in violence between the two communities Land invaders undermine the City’s housing project Land invasion undermines the RDP beneficiary list Illegal shacks are not build by the City’s plan to provide services If allowed, more land invasion will be encouraged