Giving Msimanga 48 hours to repair unsafe municipal buildings, ANC regional leader Dr Kgosi Maepa said the mayor had been targeting the offices of other government departments while neglecting Tshwane-owned buildings. Msimanga’s spokesperson Samkelo Mgobozi said the ANC’s “ultimatum” was a public relations stunt. He said if the ANC was really concerned about the well-being of workers, it would have fixed the buildings when it was still in power in the metro. Maepa said Msimanga had 48 hours to produce documents verifying that municipal buildings complied with the required building regulations and Occupational Health Safety Act. At a media briefing at Tshwane House, Maepa said that while Msimanga was running around shutting down other government buildings, he had neglected to indicate issues plaguing Tshwane-owned buildings. He referred to BITTS Building on Church Square, Isivuno House in Lilian Ngoyi Street and BKS Building in Pretorius Street. BITTS houses the city’s departments of economic development as well as transport, while the department of finance occupies BKS. Isivuno houses city planning staff, corporate and shared devices staff, utility services workers and the chief operations officer. “The BITTS building is uninhabitable and doesn’t have fire extinguishers; they were last serviced in 2016,” Maepa said. “So if there is a fire there, those employees are going to die because there is no evacuation plan and those on wheelchairs won’t get out. “The mayor went out of his way to highlight buildings of the ANC that are unsafe, but his own employees don’t have that benefit. Whose lives are important?” Maepa said the last inspection by an independent inspector on September 27, 2016, indicated that within 30 days break-glass panels with a key were to be replaced with locking mechanisms approved by the fire department. The situation was no better at Isivuno, Maepa said. According to the report, feeder routes had to be repaired, obstructions removed from emergency escape routes, fire cupboards had to be repaired and an adequate number of emergency light sources installed. “Before the mayor throws the stones from his glass house he needs to consider there are many of this own buildings that are non-compliant.” But Mgobozi said the city had been working diligently to address the concerns brought by the SA Municipal Workers Union and the Independent Municipal and Allied Trade Union regarding safety concerns. “Processes have since July been under way to identify and rectify the long-standing issues found at some of these buildings with the express instruction for them to be accelerated to avoid the situation witnessed in Joburg (where a government building caught fire).”