The photographic exhibition shows how the Nazi regime aimed to change the genetic make-up of people through interventions such as “racial hygiene” or “eugenics”. It also demonstrates the link between such thinking, the justification of racial theory, and similarities in the principles on which apartheid was formed. Since the 1980s historians, social scientists, human rights legal scholars and medical researchers have been showing how ideas of the Nazi “master race” broke into apartheid medicine, law, psychological theory and areas of the humanities and educational research. We know that some of the early eugenics work developed out of medical experimentation on African prisoners of war in Namibia during the Herero and Namaqua genocide. Lasting implications of this era can be found in works on racial hierarchy and difference written in the US and in South Africa. Here, this led to a focus on the need to bolster so-called white purity and to constrain the development of black society. The University of Pretoria said in a statement that the exhibition was an opportunity to ask some tough and complex questions: How have medical and allied professionals in the country played a role in supporting racist ideas of racial purity or essentialised race differences? How have medical and allied professionals been complicit with the apartheid machinery? How have women been targeted for reproductive control in the service of the racialised state? What contributed to shifts in ways of thinking about people living with HIV, who were highly stigmatised and marginalised in our early epidemic, and were guinea pigs for early antiretroviral trials - many conducted in an acceptable manner but some not meeting the required standard of ethical practice? How do we understand forms of Aids denialism which were couched in the language of protecting Africans from being exploited by the global pharmaceutical industry? What was the role of human rights defenders, many in the medical field, in challenging this denialism, bringing much-needed antiretrovirals to South Africans? And in our current era, how have people with disabilities (physical and mental) been treated? As objects to be abused, as was the case in the Life Esidimeni scandal, or as people with rights and dignity? The exhibition is open to the public and can be viewed in the Merensky library on the university's main campus. It is open Monday to Friday from 8.30am to 8pm and on Saturdays and Sundays from 11am to 3pm until September 26.