Ministers of Defence and Military Veterans, Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula, welcomed the Minister of Defence from Congo-Brazzaville, Charles Richard Mondjo, at the South African Defence headquarters in Waterkloof. Mondjo arrived in South Africa just two days before the launch of the internationally anticipated Africa Aerospace Defence exhibition (AAD2018) to be hosted in Tshwane. Mapisa-Nqakula said Mondjo came to South Africa after she invited him to attend the AAD2018 last year during her visit to Congo-Brazaville. The minister kept talking about this event and now that the time has come, they are pleased to be together ahead of the aerospace exhibitions. Mapisa-Nqakula welcomed Mondjo with an army parade that gave him an honorary demonstration, while other soldiers fired rounds from canons. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  Mondjo's visit attracted numerous media houses to cover his welcome parade alongside numerous generals from the two countries. Mapisa-Nqakula said this visit would strengthen relationships even further between the two nations and also present the ministers with a crucial opportunity to share defence knowledge and skills. Mondjo said Congo-Brazaville is a country with great adoration for South Africa, its people and its president, Cyril Ramaphosa. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  Various defence companies from South Africa and other countries will take advantage of Mondjo's presence and try to strike deals during the exhibitions. This morning, organisers of the AAD2018 announced the exhibition space for the show scheduled to start on Wednesday has been sold out. Dignitaries will travel from across the globe to experience the show, described as the biggest of its kind in Africa.