Celebrated under the theme “Global Food Safety and Sustainability”, the day was dedicated to celebrating the health of the environment while mitigating pollution and curbing food-related diseases. It was also for communities to value sustainable food production. “The truth is the Earth has limited resources - from our water to fuel sources and food. “If we don’t take care of this planet we will find ourselves in very desperate times,” said Mpact Recycling communications manager Donna-Mari Noble. She said whether one recycled on a personal or industrial scale, he/she had the ability to extend the lifespan of resources, specifically the landfill sites. The National Environmental Health Association noted that food safety was being challenged by global dimensions of food supply chains, and due to that, there was a need for reduction of food waste and efficient use of natural resources such as clean water. “As food supply becomes increasingly globalised, the need to strengthen food safety systems in and between all countries is becoming more evident. New threats to food safety are constantly emerging. “Changes in food production, distribution and consumption; changes to the environment; new and emerging pathogens; and antimicrobial resistance all pose challenges to national food safety systems. Increases in travel and trade enhance the likelihood that contamination can spread internationally,” the association noted. A study by the World Health Organisation (WHO) into the global burden of food-borne diseases recently found an estimated 31 hazards - viruses, bacteria, protozoa, helminths and chemicals - caused 600 million food-borne illnesses globally and 420000 deaths. The study revealed that an estimated 600 million - almost 1 in 10 people in the world - fell ill after eating contaminated food. “Food-borne diseases are a growing public health problem throughout the world, and they cause a considerable burden of disability and mortality. "Children under 5 years of age carry 40% of the food-borne disease burden, with 125000 deaths every year. “Food-borne diseases impede socio-economic development by straining health care systems and harming national economies, tourism and trade,” the WHO said.