Those who spoke to the Pretoria News said they feared they might lose their jobs because of the way the insourcing would be implemented. Last week, council took a decision to finally implement the insourcing of guards and abolish the hiring of private security companies. It also resolved that all posts must be advertised. The guards’ discontent was rooted in the fact that they would be forced to apply for posts despite having worked for years in the City. Isaac Sibanda, for the contracted guards, said: “All that the security guards want is to be given first preference. They are saying that the advertising of posts can be used in instances where the City would still have shortages of guards after hiring all those who were previously outsourced.” He said many guards who had worked for more than five years in the City might protest that the new system was unfair if they were to fail to secure their jobs. ANC chief whip in council Aaron Maluleka suggested that the City’s insourcing programme might cost many guards their jobs as there was no guarantee that the contracted guards would be hired permanently. According to him, the advertising of posts would work to the disadvantage of the guards who spent their time protesting for insourcing. Maluleka’s opinion was, however, shot down by EFF councillors, who insisted that all the posts must be advertised in line with the City’s staffing recruitment policy. EFF caucus leader Benjamin Dis-oloane said: “Anyone who qualifies to be a security guard is going to apply. The process must be sped up because it has been long overdue.” After a disagreement on whether positions must be advertised or not, the ANC gave in, saying it was persuaded by the argument presented by the EFF. The ANC’s Mapiti Matsena said: “I am convinced by the EFF that all the guards can apply.” The party also withdrew its proposed amendment, which sought to have all contracted guards hired without going through the application process. The insourcing followed calls for the City to abolish outsourcing after it emerged last year that it planned to terminate contracts of 26 private security companies. The termination threatened to cut the jobs of at least 3000 security guards, who revolted against the decision by taking to the streets and mobilising under the banner of #OutsourcingMustFall. They objected to the initial decision by the City to hire at least 250 guards over a period of four years at the cost of R55 million a year.