It is claimed that the murder was as a result of a love triangle involving three police officials. The bullet-riddled body of Lieutenant-Colonel Reinier Lagois was found in a pool of blood late on the afternoon of January 18 last year at his Villieria home. He was shot outside his garage. His service pistol - the murder weapon - and his car were missing. The car was found shortly afterwards, parked in the vicinity of Flower Street in Capital Park. The murder weapon was found about three months later in the car of another police officer, Constable Mohammed Alli, of Laudium police station. Alli was never charged in connection with Lagois’ murder or for possession of the weapon. However, he “committed suicide” two days after the weapon was found. Alli’s family vehemently denied that it was suicide. It was claimed that he tried to gas himself in his car, yet the windows were open when he was found and he had several broken bones and other injuries, they said. Constable Rishen Rampersad, a constable at Pretoria West police station, who initially pleaded not guilty to the murder, confessed to the investigating officer that he did kill Lagois. This was according to the evidence yesterday of Colonel Fires Masilela. He said Rampersad told him that he and the dead man’s fiancée, Caroline Naidoo, were lovers. She was his commander while he was a student constable and they later became romantically involved. Naidoo and Lagois were allegedly not on good terms at the time of the killing, although they still lived in the same house. Neighbours testified how they heard several loud shots shortly after 4.30pm. Naidoo, her daughter and the domestic worker, who were inside the house at the time, however, said they had heard nothing. Masilela said he became suspicious of Rampersad after the latter paced up and down the murder scene shortly after Lagois was killed, and he acted strangely. He said that after his arrest, Rampersad had said he wanted to confess. “He said ‘I did it’ and he asked me to help him.” According to Masilela, Naidoo told him that with Lagois out of the way, they would have a better life. “He said she told him that the house would then belong to them and that there was an insurance policy.” Masilela said Rampersad explained that Naidoo fetched him at work on the afternoon of the incident and that she took him to the house she shared with the deceased. Naidoo told him to wait at the garage while she went inside to fetch Lagois’s service pistol. “He said that when she handed him the pistol, she said it was one-up - meaning it was fully loaded. When he (Lagois) came out of the house, he fired 14 shots at him.” Masilela testified that it was weird to him that Naidoo and her children, who were in the house at the time of the shooting, claimed they heard nothing, while neighbours down the road heard the commotion. Naidoo also refused to speak to him that night about what had happened. She was later taken to a hospital due to her emotional state. Rampersad, through his lawyer, meanwhile claimed he was so severely assaulted and tortured by the police that he told them anything they wanted to hear and did whatever he was told to do. He maintained he was innocent. The case is proceeding.