Their names were also inscribed on their hearts of their colleagues, who fought back tears as the names were read out. In total, 29 police members died on duty between April, 2017, and March, 2018, while Constable Siboniso Buthelezi was shot dead near the KwaMashu hostel, north of Durban, a week ago. All flags at the 1146 police stations in the country were flying at half-mast to honour the fallen as the nation marked National Police Day. Family members, including children and widows, sobbed loudly as the names of the fallen officers were read out. Loud screams punctuated the event. Others had to be placed in wheelchairs as they lost the strength to walk. But for some mourners there was a sense of closure. Police Minister Bheki Cele said the manner in which police officers were attacked and killed undermined the integrity of the state, as well as the safety and security of its citizenry. He saluted the fallen officers. “The commitment, courage and dedication of these members who placed their lives on the line for the people of South Africa is highly commended and admired by the whole nation,” the minister said. Cele said the police had adopted an integrated approach to addressing police safety through community awareness and mobilisation, as well as interdepartmental co-operation. This, he said, was an effort to expedite court processes, ensure harsher sentences for police murders and facilitate policy reform to define the murder of police officers as a crime against the state (treason). Cele said the police had buried officers every other weekend since he became minister in February this year. “The oldest of them that we buried was 39, and the youngest 22. It’s completely unsustainable.” Cele said gender-based violence was a top priority for the police this year. “Gender-based violence is a profound and widespread problem in South Africa impacting on almost every aspect of life” said Cele. National police commissioner General Khehla Sitole said that having police officers killed by criminals infuriated and saddened him. “The killing of a police official is an attack on the sovereignty of the state. “It has a negative impact on service delivery and the fight against crime in the police, and has a destructive effect on the wellbeing and future of the families and children of the slain policemen and policewomen,” Sitole said.