Acting CEO Dr Bethuel Nthangeni at Onderstepoort Biological Products (OBP) has assured farmers that the strike by employees will have little impact on the company’s production process and product availability. This was in response to the striking employees’ threat that farmers will face a possibility of the outbreak of diseases this rainy season. This comes after employees affiliated to the National Union of Public Service and Allied Workers (Nupsaw) took to the streets since Friday due to a wage dispute among other things. The group said since they had downed tools, farmers and those in the horse industry will not receive any vaccinations for their livestock. However, Nthangeni said farmers needed not to worry as the company had a strategic contingency plan to cushion any disturbances on the production line. “OBP products have an 18 to 24 month shelf-life, which provides a good contingency against any unexpected production disruptions, including industrial action such as this one.” “Products produced for lumpy skin disease vaccine, rift valley fever, bluetongue and African horse sickness, which prevent diseases of an economic impact, are all available. Therefore there are no food security risks or public health issues,” he said. He also noted that although there were other issues such as housing allowance, medical aid subsidy and danger allowance which employees raised; the bargaining forum decided to focus on salary increases while other matters will be addressed after the wage negotiations. Nthangeni said: “The OBP’s position is consistent with the company’s remuneration policy which indicates that annual salary increases are based on Consumer Price Index (CPI) and employees’ performance rating for the previous year. This resulted in employees receiving a salary increase of 7.5%, based on the CPI of 6.1% as of March 2017. This included an improvement factor of 1% based on employees’ individual performance. However, the union continues to reject this and has reverted to their original demand of 7.5% across the board and de-linking salary increases with performance.” He further said the company remains committed to resolving the strike and having the rest of the workforce that are less than 30% back at work to resume normal operations.