The Pretoria News had the pleasure of chatting with the energetic young woman, known to her colleagues and city executives as the youngest A Re Yeng bus driver. She said breaking boundaries and gender constraints was something of an inheritance among women in the Mashabela family. The journey of the Soshanguve family started many decades ago when a single mother who sold fruit and vegetables on the streets saved enough money to get a driver’s licence and buy her own bakkie. Mama Rosina Mashabela thought she was replacing the middleman when she bought her own bakkie, excluding the men who charged female vendors for transporting their wares from the Tshwane Market to their homes after trading hours. The mother of three had no intention of driving buses, she just wanted to pocket extra profit to help feed her little Naledi and two of her other children. Little did she know she would fall in love with twisting the large-size steering wheel and pulling and pushing the gear lever. Driving her bakkie on the road exposed her to all those male bus drivers who looked like they enjoyed driving big vehicles from their high, bumpy but seemingly comfortable seats. Naledi said her mother fell in love with what she saw and soon found herself seeking employment in the male-dominated industry. Fast forward to a few months later, and Mashabela had become one of a few, but ever-increasing number of, female bus drivers in Tshwane and every morning she drove passengers to work while little Naledi sat with her in the bus. Naledi said: “My mother drove around with me for the first early hours of her shift because she couldn’t leave me outside the school gates unattended. She thought she was just working hard like any single mother did. She couldn’t see that her little angel was falling in love with the view of the road from the wide windscreen.” Today Naledi is the youngest female bus driver working for the City’s A Re Yeng bus rapid transit. She wakes up early to start her 4am shift to transport residents to school and work from whichever area she is assigned. “I am not going to lie, my mother is the reason why I am here. She inspired me and taught me that there is no job a woman cannot do despite what society thinks. She knew I loved what she did and she even paid for my code 14 driver’s licence in 2015. “Although she is the one proud of me, I adore her more for breaking boundaries without fear. In 2001, she won an award for being the best bus driver in Gauteng. When I received my driver’s license, she helped me get my first job as a bus driver. The company made me drive the old buses for the first six months,” said Naledi. Today, A Re Yeng commends Naledi for her attention to detail. She is said to be one of the best drivers since she started working for the city in February last year. She boasts a clean accident record and she is furthering her studies to become an assessor and facilitator in the transport industry. “Of course everything has its challenges. I was hijacked at gunpoint on June 4 at my driveway when I had just arrived in Soshanguve after a late shift. They took my car but it’s okay because my life is more important than material things. I still wonder if I could be attacked again when I drive to work every morning, but I refuse to let those pathetic men who ambushed me break my spirit. I am a strong woman who loves life and doing her job, I can’t be stopped by that.” Passengers who ride in Naledi’s bus can rest assured that she has inspected it for road-worthiness before taking it outside the Marabastad A Re Yeng bus depot every morning. She said professionalism was important in her line of work and all the drivers were tested for being sober as a rock before they were given the keys, and therefore the lives of city residents every day.