Violence erupted at the Soshanguve North Campus two weeks ago after allegations of SRC vote-rigging. In the process, Katlego Monareng was killed, allegedly by police. Classes were subsequently suspended to mourn Monareng and were expected to resume on Monday. However, students shut down the campuses, demanding justice for Monareng. Yesterday, TUT spokesperson Willa de Ruyter said management took a firm decision that activities for staff and students would continue as of today. Earlier, classes were disrupted at the Pretoria West Campus, but in Soshanguve, it was business as usual. According to De Ruyter, students handed over a lengthy memorandum to the university, which management had to study at length before responding. It was unclear what the memorandum contained. De Ruyter said in view of the limited time left to complete the academic programme, it was vital that it continued without further interruptions. The remainder of the week would therefore be dedicated to catching up for time lost during the week of mourning, and the disruptions experienced over the past two days. “Any person responsible for disruptions to the academic project or damage to TUT property will face disciplinary and legal consequences,” she said. She said a contingency plan was in place to ensure that students were able to safely attend class, and that staff were able to work, without further interruptions. On Monday, classes at both the Pretoria West and Soshanguve campuses were marred by disruptions, including the interruption of a senate meeting. Students were demanding a speedy investigation into Monareng’s death. The university has promised to conclude the investigation in three weeks. The Independent Police Investigative Directorate (Ipid) was also investigating the incident. Exams were supposed to start in early November, but would now start on November 12. This would, in turn, affect the date of the re-examination date, which was rescheduled from December 3 to December 14. The predicate day, to find out about the examination appeal, would now be on November 5. In addition, there is a proposal for Saturday classes to catch up on work.