Within a few hours of the start of the coup, thousands of judges and prosecutors were dismissed and arrested. This was the most salient indicator that the government had a list of figures deemed oppositional. Up until that point, 4463 judges and prosecutors in Turkey had been fired, many of whom are facing psychological torture in solitary confinement. According to turkeypurge.com, a website tracking the human rights violations in Turkey, 151 967 public servants (5 822 being academics) have been dismissed from their duties and 3003 schools and universities have been shut down by the government. The majority of these institutions have since been converted to  provide religious education. Since the 2016 coup attempt, 77 081 Turkish citizens have been jailed. Housewives, students, teachers and craftsmen make up most of those now in jail. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Turkey, known as the leading representative of the tradition of secularism over the years, is one of the institutions that has faced a significant decline in power. As of today, 461 Turkish diplomats have been expelled. This is equivalent to one third of all diplomats. To ingratiate themselves with the Islamist government and keep their jobs, those who continue their duties often carry out profiling and propaganda activities. One of the foreign ministry’s agendas now is to work with the Turkish National Intelligence to abduct Turkish opposition figures who live abroad. In March, through a joint operation of the Turkish intelligence service and Kosovar local police, six opponents of Erdogan were taken back to Turkey from Europe. Among them were teachers who had been teaching in Turkish schools in Kosovo for years and hadn’t been back to Turkey since. The Kosovar prime minister stated that he was not informed about the operation and dismissed the director of the Kosovo Intelligence Agency and interior minister on the grounds of carrying out an unlawful operation. Turkish officials offer aids and bribes to under-developed and poor governments to negotiate for such operations of extraditing the opponents of Turkey who have fled to these countries. No democratic nation thus far has accepted such demands from Erdogan’s government. The decline of Turkey’s democracy has had the biggest blow on freedom of the press. Based on figures from the Stockholm Centre for Freedom, a human rights organisation founded by Turkish journalists in exile, 255 journalists are still imprisoned in Turkey. A total of 189 newspapers, television channels, radio stations and websites have been shut down by the government. In the 2017 World Press Freedom Index, published by the international non-profit organisation, Reporters Without Borders, Turkey ranked 155 in 180 countries; a four-point decline in ranking as compared to the previous year. In the Freedom of the Press report 
published last year by Freedom House, an organisation tracking human rights, 
Turkey is identified as a “not free” country (the previous year it was  “partly free”. And Turkey has become one of the leading countries with deteriorating freedom in the past 10 years. According to the Turkish government, there is no one in prison because of his or her journalistic work. The accusation is that, those known to be journalists are in fact members of a terrorist organisation, and that they carried out a coup attempt to overthrow the government. However, when one scrutinises the indictments against the journalists, there is no evidence aside from the defendant’s tweets, news and articles. Some journalists have been deprived of their liberty for years. According to data from Committee to Protect Journalists around the world, Turkey is the country with the most journalists in jail. Hundreds of journalists like me have been forced to leave the country. The vast majority of the television, newspapers, radio and websites that 
continue to operate are run by Erdogan’s family, or businessmen known as supporters of Erdogan. Pro-government media outlets are funded by the state, and private companies are forced to advertise. Between April 9 and 15, on average 
3 million newspapers were sold a day. Out of these sales of the 41 new sources, 2.7million of the sales were to government-friendly sources, corresponding to 88% of the overall newspaper circulation. The new sources with opposition stands are hard to access, and therefore, reach is limited. In March, nine of the top 10 most watched television channels in Turkey were pro-government. The only independent channel that made it to the top 10 was Fox TV, an apolitical entertainment channel, ranking number nine. In terms of internet freedom, Freedom House defined Turkey as a country that was the most restricted. Thousands of Twitter accounts are being prohibited by court decisions, and access to hundreds of opposition websites are blocked for users in Turkey. Even access to Wikipedia has been blocked since last April. With the great media power Erdogan has at hand, he is silencing opponents, demonising them, declaring them  traitors of the homeland, while spreading his one-sided propaganda. Last month, Erdogan said it would be treason to call for early elections in Turkey. Yet last week, in the hope of catching opposition parties off-guard, he announced  early elections on June 24. Erdogan himself is a candidate. Kenez was editor-in-chief of Turkey’s Meydan Daily that was shut down by the Turkish government. He lives in exile and co-ordinates the Freedom of Press and Expression at Stockholm Centre  for Freedom Turkey’s ambassador to South Africa responds: For some days now, outlets belonging to Independent Media have provided a platform for the spokespeople of an entity known to be the architect of the failed coup attempt in Turkey in July 2016. Media freedom is a core value of all democratic societies. That is certainly the case for South Africa. But as all freedoms, media freedoms don’t exist in a vacuum and are subject to a set of responsibilities. These responsibilities which essentially relate to moral and ethical values should guide media outlets in their editorial decisions. In this case, I strongly believe that the balancing of moral and ethical concerns with the requirement of protecting the editorial independence and pluralism of opinion has been greatly undermined by the granting of valuable opinion space to this specific cast of writers belonging to the “Gulen network” which is recognised in my country as a terrorist entity (FETO) in the wake of their botched coup attempt. Not only is there an ongoing legal process in Turkey in relation to many members of this organisation involved in the coup attempt combined but also a very strong bipartisan consensus shared by all actors across the political spectrum about the true nature of the threat posed by the “Gulenists” for the integrity of the Turkish state. Against this backdrop, it also seems to me that taking as a journalistic reference the online articles published by the leaders of this organisation that have had to flee their country of origin is grossly incongruous with basic standards of reporting. The “Gulen movement” has arguably a strong presence in South Africa backed by a network of schools that they continue to operate. But the Turkish Government is now co-operating closely with South African authorities to shed light on the true nature of this entity. This co-operative framework has further assisted our mutual efforts to advance bilateral ties. The South African Minister of Basic Education, Honourable Angie Motshekga is visiting Turkey to meet her counterpart. The closeness of bilateral ties is also illustrated by the invitation extended by South African authorities for Turkey to participate in the upcoming Brics Summit to be held in July. Elif Comoglu Ulgen Ambassador of Turkey