He said he and other commuters from Ramotse in Hammanskraal had been paying for shared transport since the strike started. A single trip to town costs him R15. “When I calculate it, R15 is probably two bus trips. I’m spending twice as much just to get to work.” He is among thousands who have been hit after at least 50 bus companies stopped operating across the country. The affected services include A Re Yeng, Gautrain, Putco, North West Star and Megabus. Maluleka said from about 4.30am commuters started walking to the nearby bus station where they scrambled for transport. “Vehicles, mostly private cars, pull up almost every 10 minutes offering transport at a fee, the minimum being R15.” Maluleka said the later it got, the higher the prices went. “They can see that you are desperate to get to work and they exploit that.” He said it was even worse when they returned home, and he sometimes waited for four hours. He said some drivers didn’t want to offer transport in the late afternoon leading into the night, for fear of being hijacked. For Maluleka, ride-sharing was not only dangerous for the drivers but for commuters, too. “We live with sick and disturbed people. What if the driver is a rapist or a murderer? I often feel scared for the female commuters.” He was one of many who bought monthly tickets and is worried if he would be reimbursed. The strike is the result of a deadlock in wage negotiations. Unions have since called on Transport Minister Blade Nzimande to intervene in the ongoing impasse in the wage negotiations after the involvement of his labour counterpart did not to produce the desired result. Minister of Labour Mildred Oliphant convened a meeting between unions and employers in an effort to break the deadlock in the more than three-month-old wage talks. Although talks lasted late into the night, no settlement was reached. Labour lowered its demands from 12% to 9.5% across the board for the first year and 8.5% for the second year to 9% for both years. But employer associations offered 8% for the second year and 9% for the first year to be paid from May 1 instead of April 1 - which means workers would be paid the increase for 11 months only. In addition, employers refused to accede to labour demands with regard to dual driver payments, night shift hours and the insourcing of workers such as cleaners into the SA Road Passenger Bargaining Council.