RAPULA MOATSHE There was massive traffic congestion in the Pretoria CBD on Thursday morning as the metro police officers in Tshwane took part in a parade to mark the opening of the State of the Capital Address (Soca). Most of the inner-city streets were closed off as they paraded from Burgers' Park to Tshwane House, where Soca is scheduled to take place. Roads that were affected included Jeff Masemola, Minaar Street, Burgerspark Lane, Visagie Street, Nana Sita, Francis Baard, Pretorius, Johannes Ramokhoase and Helen Joseph. Motorists and nearby businesses were urged to be patient as road closures were only temporary. The parade started at 9:00am at Burgers Park on the corner of Lilian Ngoyi and Jeff Masemola Street. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  Passersby looked on as the police strode towards the City's headquarters, where mayor Solly Msimanga was expected to address council and residents at 11:00am. Outside Tshwane House, there was a huge presence of SAPS officers and other metro police. Councillors streamed inside the City's headquarters council chamber in anticipation of Msimanga's speech. The chamber would be used for the first time since the R2bn municipal offices were officially opened last year. A Tshwane metro police choir entertained people as they arrived for the occasion. Recently, Msimanga told councillors that Soca would give him an opportunity to account to Tshwane residents about work done by his administration since it took over after the 2016 local government elections. He said: "I will also do some hard thinking about the challenges of where we are and where we need to be. And obviously be able to account for what has been and what we are going to do to get us to where we want to be. I will also communicate to this council and to the residents at large of the progress of where we are."