The Deputy Director of Public Prosecutions in Pretoria is hanging up her robe after 47 years of faithful service to the law. Meintjes not only saw serial killer and rapist Moses Sithole being sent  to prison for 2400 years, but was also responsible for the life-term meted out to the Modimolle Monster, Johan Kotze. The nickname “the woman who slays monsters” was given to her during an interview with a local magazine at the time - a label she said she loved. Meintjes, who is retiring at the end of this month, was on Friday hailed by her colleagues during a farewell ceremony at the office of the Director of Public Prosecutions. Meintjes has made many inroads into the law during her nearly five decades of serving the profession. Not only was she instrumental in establishing the Hatfield Community Court, but she also saw to it that women and children and the sexually abused received both a legal and a sympathetic ear. Her long list of achievements include being a founder member and president of the South African  Professional Society on the Abuse of Children. She was also part of an expert group which drafted the handbook “Effective Prosecution Responses to Violence Against Women and Children”. During her career Meintjes secured a string of high-profile convictions. She argued many criminal appeals in the Supreme Court of Appeal and constitutional issues in the Constitutional Court. Her career in law was not easy, as it was a very male-dominated profession when she started. She fought for women’s rights and ensured that female prosecutors received the recognition they deserved. The acting director of public prosecutions in Pretoria, advocate George Baloyi, who prosecuted alongside her in the trial of serial killer and rapist Sithole in the 1980s, recalled how Meintjes at the time mastered DNA evidence, which was then a new field. She even at times had to correct experts on the subject. Baloyi said Winnie Madikizela-
Mandela attended the trial at one stage and sat alongside the many victims in the public gallery. “Retha asked me to talk to Winnie. I spoke to her and she expressed the wish that justice must prevail. She cared deeply about the wellbeing of the victims.” Baloyi also remembered how the prosecution, which was led by Meintjes in the Sithole trial, urgently needed a document to be signed by then president Nelson Mandela. The president was due to leave the country, and on Meintjes’s instructions, they had to chase the aeroplane until they got the signature. Former justice minister Dullah Omar called Meintjies “mischievous” and treated her with deep respect. Erstwhile Transvaal Attorney-General Jan d’Oliveira, in his letter of motivation to the president recommending Meintjes to receive silk status, referred to her skills in fighting for justice. Mandela’s successor Thabo Mbeki in 2002 awarded her silk status. Although she is retiring, Meintjes said she would still be involved in certain important  issues, such as fighting for better salaries for prosecutors and issues regarding children. Her message to the next generation: “I urge all prosecutors to be proud of their noble profession, always serve with absolute integrity, be informed and deliver your very best."