Lesufi was speaking at the switch-on and launch of online pupil admission at the Atteridgeville Community Hall. The online registrations for Grade 1 and 8 saw more than 50000 applications being processed online in the first hour. The system opened at 8am. Lesufi assured parents the online registration had made it easier for the department to process and ensure that all pupils were placed as early as possible. This method would help parents rest assured that their child would be placed in schools irrespective of language policy, race or class, he said. “Our online registration process does not discriminate against anyone. All we want is for all children to learn together as it is their right.” The move to online registrations had, according to Lesufi, enabled the department to defeat those who preyed on desperate parents by demanding a registration fee. Lesufi also touched on issues of space and schools refusing to transform their admission requirements, and referred to the department’s court battles this year, including the highly publicised battle with Vereeniging’s Hoërskool Overvaal. The single-medium school successfully managed to stop the department forcing it to admit an additional 55 English speaking pupils. The Gauteng High Court, Pretoria, ruled in favour of the school that the department had failed to consider the school’s capacity. After Judge Bill Prinsloo’s ruling, the EFF, ANC, South African Democratic Teachers’ Union and angry community members protested outside the school’s premises. Lesufi said this year they would be able to identify schools whose language policy needed to be amended or have additional languages introduced to accommodate the community they were based in. “There are some who are angry and threatening to take us to court. But I want them to know that I am ready; let’s go to court,” he said. “We want all our children to be taught and study under one roof. This is how we will honour Mama Winnie and the freedom that so many others fought for.” Parents queueing up for assistance were also of the view that the department’s decision to push forward with online registration was for the best. Boitumelo Seloma said she had tried in vain to register using her phone, as the next page kept asking for a password. Seloma said she was happy the department was trying to speed up the process. Previously parents would only find out at the last minute that their child was not placed. “This is working; we just need to be patient with it. At least now you can find out sooner, unlike having to wait until January.” What made it even better now was that the schools had to provide reasons for not admitting children, Seloma said. Another parent, Nthombi Danisa, said the online process was working, and encouraged the department to deploy more officials to assist the elderly and illiterate. “Many children are raised by and depend on them to sort out their schooling needs,” she said. Just before sunset yesterday Lefusi’s spokesperson, Steve Mabona, said the department had processed and responded to almost 500 000 parents regarding their applications. There had been no system glitch experienced in the previous years. The online registration will continue until May 28, with the placement of pupils scheduled to take place between July 18 and October 31.