They had been forcefully “evicted” from their homes by members of SANDF in November. Lawyers for Human Rights, which took on their plight, launched an urgent application asking the court to order that they return to their homes. They are asking that if they cannot return immediately they be paid R1500 each a month to enable them to secure alternative accommodation. Most of the residents were originally linked to the military base at Marievale. However, in subsequent years the number of military staff working for Group 16 diminished and more civilian families moved in. The size of the base shrunk and as military staff moved out, the SA Military Police started putting pressure on residents to vacate their homes. In 2009 the officer commanding Marievale Engineering Regiment issued notices to all civilian residents ordering them to leave their homes. Following this threat the residents complained to the SA Human Rights Commission as they feared they would be removed. The commission wrote to the minister of defence and warned that an eviction without a court order would be illegal. The SANDF, however, said it was establishing a regiment at the Marievale Military Base and needed accommodation for the members and their families. The military issued the residents with another notice to vacate in December 2015. It informed the residents of a “crime prevention operation targeting illegal occupation of houses belonging to the military”. The commission yet again intervened, but a few months later armed soldiers conducted an operation in Marievale. They blocked the entrances to the village and prevented residents from moving to and from their homes. The military police and soldiers forced their way into homes, ordering residents to stand outside in the winter cold, while they interrogated others. They threatened the residents and forced them to vacate their homes within 24 hours. They did not proceed with this after the DA’s Kobus Marais intervened. But last November they conducted another operation. It is claimed that they used violent tactics and pointed firearms at the residents. The terrified residents, who included children and the elderly, vacated their homes. Many were forced to leave behind their valuables. The SANDF denied that the residents were evicted. The matter could not go ahead yesterday, as the arguments would last an entire day, which the urgent court could not accommodate as it had to hear many cases. Deputy Judge President Aubrey Ledwaba allocated a special court to hear the matter on May 2.