Maria and Godfrey Bogopa, 43 and 57, are always the belles of the ball when they stroll around their neighbourhood as they always emerge from home wearing stylish matching outfits; something unusual for people their age. Be it denim, African print, Western outfits; the couple own every trend you can think of. What’s even more interesting is that they make all the clothes themselves, with what they call “cheap” materials from local shops. Maria normally wears a dress matching the husband’s shirt and shoes in the same colour, while Godfrey wears pants to match the footwear. They spoke to the Pretoria News about this endearing trend, saying it started more than 20 years ago when they decided to turn the tragedy of losing all the clothes they owned into something positive, after someone poured acid all over them. The parents of three boys have been together for more than 30 years, but only married in 2011. Godfrey works as a caretaker in the Sunnyside apartment block they live in, while his wife spends her days making their clothes. And wherever they go, passers-by and motorists stare at them, with some even taking pictures, so that even short trips such as going to buy bread at the nearest tuckshop sets them apart from everyone on the street. Last week, the couple attracted attention as they strolled through Magnolia Dell Park, holding hands as is their norm, when someone shouted “that’s my favourite couple”. Others along the street could not help but gaze at them with adoring smiles. They recalled the day things took a turn: “I remember years ago we had washed all our clothes and somebody poured acid all over them and we were only left with blue overalls. “So there was a lady who used to sew clothes nearby, and she would give me some material to make my own clothes with just a needle. She saw that I had talent and decided to surprise me with a sewing machine and to date I still use it,” Maria said. “I remember the first outfits I made with that machine; we wore them when we went to Home Affairs to sign our marriage certificate.” Godfrey said their trend has also been inspired by love, and they always feel connected to each other when wearing matching clothes. “According to me it is love. Love is unity and whenever we are dressed like one person the love grows even more. If I’m dressed in blue and she’s in pink we don’t feel the connection, but if the opposite is the case then we are one,” he said. “Everywhere we go people come to us, they greet us and ask for our ‘recipe’. “They want to take pictures with us, people come to us for advice to ask how it is possible to be married for so many years and still love each other so much.” They reflected back to the 1980s when they first met. Godfrey said he had been praying for a wife for three years before he met Maria. “Although we met in the early 1980s, we only got married in June 2011. I remember very well I met my princess when I was from church, and it was on a Sunday. I thank God for giving me someone who is a Christian like me, my prayer warrior,” he proudly told the Pretoria News. The couple said their love was only growing because of not having secrets, respecting each other and having started out on a clean foundation. Prayer and giving their love to Christ was another reason their marriage has lasted long, the couple added.