“The outrageous acts of hooliganism and reckless violence” have been described as the worst incident at the stadium since it was built in 2010. Sport and Recreation Minister Tokozile Xasa was among those demanding answers. “We can’t wait for a person to die before we act. The PSL and stadium management must provide answers on what happened. How did supporters manage to storm the grounds and endanger people’s lives?” she asked. Angry fans ran amok after the semi-final clash between Kaizer Chiefs and Free State Stars. They invaded the pitch, assaulting security personnel and causing damage expected to run into millions of rand. The violence also spilt outside the stadium as some of the unruly fans attacked people and stoned cars parked near the stadium. The management of Moses Mabhida yesterday refused to speculate on how much the damage was expected to amount to, saying this would be revealed later in the week. “Our internal engineer is at work as we speak and we will be able to quantify the damage after 48 hours surely that is not a long time,” said stadium manager Vusi Mazibuko. He confirmed that damage at the stadium included destruction to the gates for pitch access, goalposts, steel fencing, signage and concrete bollards. Seats and plastic bins were set alight during the mayhem. Cameras belonging to SuperSport were also damaged. SuperSport said it was still assessing the “substantial” damage to its property. Mazibuko denied initial reports suggesting that a female security guard had been severely beaten. This was not true as only males were injured, he said. “All in all 18 people were injured, there were no women,” he said. This was corroborated by metro police deputy head Wiseman Mchunu, who said only four injured men had been taken to hospital. They were treated and released by yesterday. Mazibuko said the stadium management would study the incident closely and try to improve security where needed. However, he stressed that security at the stadium was handled by the police. “Stakeholders do contribute but that is handled by the SAPS, so police will be in a position to speak about the security breach,” he said. Mchunu said at a planning meeting held with the police ahead of the event that metro police were responsible only for the outside perimeter while the SAPS and private security companies were responsible for security inside the stadium. However, when it became clear that the members of the SAPS were not coping, six metro cops from the Public Order Policing Unit went in to assist, he said. “In that footage you can see them rescuing the security guard who was being beaten,” Mchunu added. KZN SAPS spokesperson Captain Nqobile Gwala said two suspects, aged 27 and 33, were arrested for public violence and malicious damage to property. They were expected to appear in the Durban Magistrate’s Court today. She did not have any details about property damaged outside the stadium. The incident has raised questions about the private security companies’ readiness for the situation. James Dlamini, the owner of Aneme Security, said his firm was one of three private security companies contracted to provide almost 500 security personnel. Dlamini’s company had provided 300 security guards while the other two companies provided 98 and 75 guards respectively. He said claims that the security companies on the day were not well trained to deal with the situation were unfounded. “We have worked at many games before so to say we are inexperienced is not true,” he said. See Page 7