JAMES MAHLOKWANE There was anger in and outside the Bronkhorstspruit Magistrate's Court after the State transferred the case of the white man accused of raping his family's domestic worker before forcing her to have sex with two dogs. The group of EFF members approached the office of magistrate David Shikwampane to voice their frustrations immediately after proceedings. This, according to the fighters, is a strategy for suspects of racially motivated crimes to escape justice at the court that received community support. This is the second case of a suspected racially motivated crime that has been moved from Bronkhorstpruit to the capital. Two farmers accused of kidnapping a young black girl and pointing a riffle at her for trespassing also caused grief in the small town when their case was transferred to the Pretoria Magistrate's Court this year. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  Their case, like this one, had an overwhelming amount of community following and their last court appearance in Bronkhorstspruit sparked violence after they walked into court on their own while the community thought they were denied bail by the court. It later emerged that the two suspects obtained bail at the Gauteng High Court, Pretoria, without the knowledge of the community or the family of the victim. The fighters said enough was enough, they were determined to follow this case to the heavens if need be. Leadership informed the protesting crowd they would mobilise Bronkhorstspruit members and the Pretoria EFF to rally behind this case until the end. The accused will make his next appearance in the Pretoria Magistrate's Court on May 3. On his last appearance in Bronkhorstspruit, the community was in celebratory mood after he was denied bail. This was the second time the court canned an application from the accused. Earlier this year, the court refused him an opportunity to undergo psychiatric observation. Prosecutor Sello Leballo successfully argued that the accused was mentally stable and wanted to go and fake mental instability under observation to escape justice.