The 36-year-old mother of three is among this year’s Mrs Commonwealth finalists, and said breast cancer awareness was her main focus for the competition. She became aware of the pageant on the internet and realised she fitted the criteria perfectly. “They said they wanted married women who had confidence in themselves; those who wanted to make a difference in the community, inspire and be the voice to the voiceless in the society,” she said. “I saw that I fit the categories and decided to join the competition. I saw it was my chance to bring a difference to my community, especially in Jane Furse in Limpopo, where people cannot access breast cancer facilities. “I have realised that people are aware of breast cancer but are afraid to go out and do mammograms, so my aim is to fund the breast cancer truck facility so it can go out and reach the people in rural areas.” Mutavhatsindi said breast cancer awareness remained dear to her heart as her aunt was diagnosed with it years back but did not do much about it. “I think she didn’t do anything because of ignorance or lack of knowledge, but years later the cancer had spreadto a point where she had to travel from Jane Furse to Pretoria for treatment. “Sometimes she would not have the funds and at the end we lost her due to lack of facilities,” she said. Although she is originally from Jane Furse and now lives in Kempton Park, she said Pretoria was her second home as this was the place she arrived at when she moved from home. “I came to Pretoria to study electrical engineering at Pretoria West College back in 2002, hence Pretoria is my second home; that is why I work here and my family is also around here,” she said. Mutavhatsindi works as an electrical engineer at Bosman Street Station. She said that growing up she always dreamed of being a model but could not fulfil her dream owing to lack of information and funds. “But now I saw an opportunity that I could still fulfil my dream and grabbed it with both hands.” Mutavhatsindi said others too were queens and strong women eager to win the title, but what set her apart was her golden heart. “My heart reflects my inner self; what is inside will go outside and attract positive energy and positive things,” she said. She added that being Mrs Commonwealth did not mean that one had to be skinny or be beautiful. “The beauty comes from within,” she said. The pageant takes place each year and aims to create a platform for women of all ages to become charity and culture ambassadors within South Africa and the broader international community. It is also meant to empower women with the knowledge to bring change to communities in need. To help her win the title, vote for Mutavhatsindi by SMSing her name to 35554.