In terms of the court decision, the family of Michael, 5, who tragically died when he fell into the pit toilet at his school in rural Limpopo in 2014, will hardly receive any compensation for their loss. The court turned down the bulk of their claims yesterday, which included damages for emotional shock and trauma. Section27, which assisted the family in their legal quest, said it welcomed the structural interdict to provide adequate and safe sanitation for pupils in Limpopo. However, it was at the same time disappointed that the suffering of the Komape family and the circumstances of Michael’s death had been insufficiently recognised and acknowledged. While some of the claims had already been settled during the trial by the State, Judge Gerrit Muller, among others, yesterday dismissed various additional claims by the family. These included damages for emotional trauma and shock and a R2m claim for the grief suffered by Michael’s parents and immediate family. The court, however, ordered the Basic Education Department to pay a total of R12000 towards the future psychological treatment for two of the youngest Komape children. Each will receive R6000 for their counselling sessions. On the upside, the court ordered the Minister for Basic Education Angie Motshekga and the Limpopo MEC for Education to supply and install, at each rural school in Limpopo equipped with pit toilets, a sufficient number of safe and secure toilets. The minister and the MEC have to supply the court with a list and location of each school in this province with pit toilets and it has to submit a detailed programme to the court as to how and by when safer toilets would be installed. Judge Muller ordered that the minister and MEC had to file these reports by July 30. The Department of Basic Education estimated it would cost about R7.8billion to address the sanitation backlog at all schools. But the judge said: “It is clear that due to lack of political will, no effort was made to better the situation at schools of which the second defendant (the MEC) was aware of.” He said while funds were allocated for sanitation facilities at 66 schools, it was not used due to a dispute over service delivery agreements. “The department displayed a total lack of urgency or commitment to use these funds history has shown that the defendants (department and education officials) lack the will to act in the interest of the learners.” The judge said it was plain that the department failed to perform certain obligations towards pupils in rural Limpopo, including Michael, which resulted in the little boy's death. Regarding the lack of compensation for damages, including their application to develop the law regarding constitutional damages, Section27 said this stood in contrast to the damages awarded to the families in the Life Esidimeni saga. It has taken instructions from the Komape family and anticipate that they will appeal against the damages aspect of the judgment in the Supreme Court of Appeal. The State earlier conceded that it had failed the family regarding little Michael and settled some of the claims during the trial, in terms of which it was agreed the family would receive R135327 in compensation. Michael, 5, was three days at Mahlodumela School outside Polokwane, when he fell into the pit toilet and died. When he disappeared during the break, the school contacted his mother Rosina Komape. She went to the school and when she saw her son’s hand protruding from the pit, she fainted. It was established that he had drowned. The family wanted constitutional damages for their grief following their son’s death, but the judge said grief was not a condition, but a common human experience and a consequence following the death of a loved one. “A claim for grief, which caused no recognisable injury, cannot be justified it will no doubt lead to bogus and an unwarranted proliferation of claims for psychiatric injuries and pave the way for limitless claims for every conceivable cause of grief” the judge said. Prof Thuli Madonsela expressed her disappointment at the judgment. “I consider it to be grossly unjust a setback regarding social justice.”