The walk was initiated by Goyapele Youth Movement as a call for action. Participants went to a spot near a river that was generally frequented by substance abusers and tried to urge them to seek help. The large group, chanting songs of support and carrying placards, surprised the group of young people who asked why they were worthy of attention. The walkers formed a circle and sang spiritual songs and three drug users joined them. Movement founder Kgomotso Busang referred to the young drug users as “soldiers” because of the level of hard work they showed all day collecting bottles and steel that they would sell to feed their craving. “They work very hard, but their efforts are wasted,” Busang said. She told them the community needed them and loved them dearly, and that the walk was for them to commit to ending the cycle of drugs in Sofasonke. “We came here because we love you; we grew up with some of you. It is not easy seeing you like this. We came here to tell you that you can turn a new leaf by committing to go to rehab. “It starts with you and you can beat this,” Busang told them. “We are not condemning people who are addicted to nyaope, but trying to show them love and tell them to come to us whenever they need help. That is why we walked to the river to be visible so that they could come and join us.” She said they went to the hotspot to get them while they were all together because they had failed in other attempts, like putting up a tent and hoping they would turn up. She said the movement was close to her heart because of the first-hand experience she had of her brother abusing the substance. “This war against nyaope is personal for me because I grew up with a brother who had the same problem as those young men by the river. Now he is in rehabilitation, but I saw the effect it had on him; it was a difficult time,” she said. Her brother, Kabelo Busang, said he was happy to lead the walk to the river to preach to his friends about getting rehabilitation. He said was glad he broke the chains of his decade-old addiction. When the group walked away from the river, another drug user followed them and asked for help.