The men face charges of robbery with aggravated circumstances and four counts of attempted murder. The residents sang songs in support of the victims outside court. They also vowed to deal with the men if they were granted bail. Community leader Milton Ntuli said they lived in fear of criminals in Soshanguve Extension 6. The gang frequently entered people's homes forcefully at night to steal appliances and money, he said. “There was normally four of them. Their first attempt was at the the Mohlala family home on February 14. But the family quickly alerted neighbours and the robbery failed. However, they went back again on March 10 to finish the job. “Johannes Mohlala was shot in the chest and hand when he tried to protect his family.” Ntuli said after lying low for a few weeks, they struck again on March 29, robbing a shop, but residents were alerted and came out of their homes to assist. Johannes Phele witnessed the robbery from his car. One of the men shot him two times, wounding him in his left arm and ribs, worried that he would recognise them. They also randomly shot at people to make way for their getaway car.  Phele said they went to his house the following day to finish him off, but  police spotted and arrested them. “I was near the shop that was robbed and they approached me. I think they were going to take my car or to kill me. One of them shot me two times, but a lot of bullets missed me,” Phele said. That they drove past his home the next day scares him. “What if some of them come back to finish me off? I don’t sleep at night thinking of all the bad things that could happen.” William Mohlala recalled the horror of the fateful day his home was raided by the heavily armed men. His life had since become clouded with fear and nightmares that never stopped, he said. They shot him in the chest. “On their first attempt my wife blew the whistle and they fled, noticing my neighbours watching. But on their second attempt, my wife and I were woken up by my child saying she saw a torch in her bedroom. I got out of bed quickly and took a spade to scare them off. “In the dark and afraid for my life and that of my family I shouted, ‘what are you trying to do’, and I asked my wife if she had alerted the neighbours,” he said. He was shot in his arm and then his chest and spent almost two weeks in hospital. In court, the accused instructed their lawyer to abandon bail. They are back in court on May 8.