Commuters across the country have had to make alternative arrangements to get to their destinations after the strike began last Wednesday. Many have had to incur additional costs as they had already purchased long term bus tokens they now cannot use. Bus drivers, led by trade union South African Transport and Allied Workers Union (Satawu), are demanding a 12% salary increase across the board, while employers are offering 7%. Satawu has been joined by the Transport and Omnibus Workers Union, the Transport and Allied Workers Union of South Africa and the Tirisano Transport and Services Workers Union in the strike. At various ranks yesterday, commuters stood in lengthy queues waiting for lifts to work as buses remained non-operational. Negotiations were, meanwhile, continuing at the CCMA. In Pretoria, commuters at Bosman Station continued to ignore the ongoing bus drivers' nationwide strike. They were waiting for buses despite warnings by staff that the strike was still ongoing. Mziwoxolo Seti, from Thaba Tshwane, accompanied by his sister Noloyiso Seti, was waiting for a bus to Pietermaritzburg. Mziwoxolo was supposed to start a new job in that area. But instead, he said he was frustrated while waiting, hoping for a bus to take him to KwaZulu-Natal. He had no choice, but to phone his new employer to explain that he was stranded. “Coming here is money; we are spending money to come here. My brother is worried sick as he has been waiting for this break, but we have no other option but to wait,” his sister said. Betty Rikhotso, from Centurion, was also waiting for a bus to Pieter-
maritzburg, and said she had taken leave from work before the strike started. Those who had already bought tickets will be refunded. The only bus company operational is Intercape. Drivers who are on strike are from Megabus, Gautrain, Greyhound, Golden Arrow, Tshwane’s A Re Yeng, MyCiTi Bus in Cape Town, Rea Vaya in Joburg, Buscor in Mpumalanga, Bojanala in the North West, Algoa Bus in Port Elizabeth, Mayibuye in East London, Go George in George, Mgqibelo in Sedibeng, Lowveld Bus Company in Limpopo, PAL Bus in Mpumalanga, Mphakathi in Mpumalanga and others. The Tshwane Bus Service has not been affected by the strike.