Mahlangu, South Africa’s Ndebele artist and international icon, was honoured with an honorary doctorate by the University of Joburg yesterday. Mahlangu said she was humbled to be honoured with a doctorate. “Being recognised at home is such a blessing. It shows that my people still see the great work that I do. It's good to be honoured while I am still alive,” she said. Mahlangu said despite not receiving any formal education in her childhood, she felt inspired and motivated to be called "Doctor". “I heard that they will be calling me 'doctor'. I still can't believe it. When growing up, I didn't go to school because during our time in my area there were no schools for black people,” said Mahlangu who grew up in Mthambothini, 
Middelburg. Mahlangu, who lives with her grandchildren, said she would like to see them grow up to follow their dreams. “One of my biggest dreams is to see all my grandchildren taking education seriously and doing what they love most. It's important for parents to allow their kids to do what they love. We need to support their dreams and ensure they come true,” said the jubilant Mahlangu. She began painting as a child at the age of 10 after being taught the art of Ndebele homestead wall painting and beadwork by her mother and grandmother. Her work first won international attention in 1989 after her inclusion in the important exhibition Magiciens de la Terre at the Centre Pompidou in Paris. Back in 1991, Mahlangu was the first woman to create artwork on a BMW 525i sedan, turning it into a unique and colourful BMW Art Car. Last year, Gogo Mahlangu was again commissioned by the BMW Group to put her unique artistic touch on a BMW 7 Series, and the vehicle was displayed at the Frieze Art Fair in London. Simultaneously, the original BMW 525i Art Car was part of the exhibition. South Africa: the art of a nation at the British Museum, highlighting Ester's key role in South African art. As a national icon and custodian of heritage, Mahlangu has been honoured with awards and medals by the government many times, and by more than one South African president. She received the Order of Ikhamanga, silver class, in 2006, as well as the Mpumalanga Arts and Culture Award, an award from the French Ministry of Culture, two awards from Radio Ndebele, and many others from South Africa and abroad. Professor Federico Freschi, the executive dean of the faculty of art, design and architecture at UJ, said they decided to honour Mahlangu because of her legacy. “With this honorary doctorate, we recognise Ester Mahlangu for her legacy as a cultural entrepreneur, skilfully negotiating local and global worlds, and as an educator. "Indeed, as a visionary individual she traverses what to others are insurmountable political barriers,” he said. Freschi said Mahlangu was a living legend. “In the context of current debates in South African institutions of higher learning on questions of decolonisation of the curriculum, Ester Mahlangu is a living example of how authentic African knowledge systems can be articulated meaningfully and sustainably. "In her, we have an icon worthy of being looked up to by the next generation of creatives, and the university, in particular this faculty, is greatly honoured to confer the degree of Philosophiae Doctor honoris causa upon her,” he said. The Steve Tshwete municipality congratulated Mahlangu on her recent achievement. Acting municipal manager Bheki Khenisa said they were thankful and proud that against all odds and coming from a small town of Middelburg “she managed to fly the flag of our town and country high. We congratulate her, she deserves it".