But when he appears in the Durban High Court today, he will find many of his high profile backers have long since deserted him. Zuma is facing 16 charges related to fraud, corruption and racketeering in connection with 783 payments he allegedly received as part of the controversial arms deal. Zuma at one stage could count on then firebrand ANC Youth League president Julius Malema, the SACP’s Blade Nzimande, former Cosatu secretary general Zwelinzima Vavi and former public service minister Ngoako Ramatlhodi who all helped push him into power. In 2008 Malema even went as far as to say: “We are prepared to die for Zuma. We are prepared to take up arms and kill for Zuma.” Even Vavi concurred with Malema saying: “Because Jacob Zuma is one of us, and he is one of our leaders, for him, we are prepared to lay our lives and shoot and kill.” Nzimande once even declared the furore around Zuma’s controversial Nkandla homestead as “white people’s lies”. Thabani Khumalo, a political analyst, said the likes of Malema, Vavi and Nzimande supported Zuma based on expectations that they would benefit. But these expectations never materialised when Zuma took office as president in 2009. “When he became president he was no longer the same person who shared similar views with them. “Whether he changed because of the situation he found in office or he was unfaithful remains unknown, but as a result there was animosity between himself and the SACP, Cosatu and other formations which backed him in his earlier trials,” Khumalo said. The support Zuma enjoyed from various sectors including The Friends of Jacob Zuma Trust, during his court battles including the rape charge by Khwezi (Fezekile Ntsukela Kuzwayo) for which he was acquitted in 2006, had evaporated as Zuma was no longer on good terms with many of his previous backers. The group was made up of powerful business figures such as the late Don Mkhwanazi, former Greytown mayor Philani “PG” Mavundla and Nora Fakude-Nkuna, who all threw their collective financial weight behind Zuma as he faced the trial. Khumalo said Zuma had even fallen out with the late Mkhwanazi by the time of his death in July 2016. “As a result new sectors are backing him, but will they have enough power to mobilise enough support compared to the support during his trials in the mid 2000s? “If they manage to get the support will they manage to sustain it? Nobody knows. “We’re just waiting for the process to unfold before we see, but it’s going to be difficult this time because Zuma had bad publicity for the past 10 years due to corruption. “I don’t think he can still mobilise support and get sympathy like before,” Khumalo said. Some of the formations now backing Zuma, including the National Funeral Practitioners Association of SA, the controversial Delangokubona SA Business Forum, Black First Land First and the National Interfaith Council of SA were taking chances by backing Zuma when he was no longer president, he said. “Some of these groups were fighting for better economic conditions, but didn’t get that even when Zuma was president and some of them have decided to use violence to get access to economic opportunities. “You end up wondering why they are supporting him and what they’re expecting from him when he’s no longer president. They’re just taking a chance to try to mobilise. “If this campaign fails to take off you will see people distancing themselves from it,” Khumalo said. See Page 9