John Baloyi stabbed and beat Mpho Ndobe to death in October 26, 2016. He left her body “to rot” in their shack in Mamelodi East, the Gauteng High Court, Pretoria heard. At the time of the incident, Baloyi was out on parole after he had served part of a 10-year jail term for rape. Baloyi admitted that he had assaulted Ndobe, but he denied that he killed her. She was last seen alive on October 23, 2016, and her body was only recovered several days later. It emerged that after he had killed her, Baloyi left her body in the shack and went about his job as a mechanic as if nothing had happened. He did not return to the shack before her partially decomposed body was discovered by a passerby. An autopsy revealed that Ndobe died of blunt force trauma to the head and various stab wounds. Baloyi, 56, denied that he had killed his girlfriend, but Judge Bert Bam convicted him on the strength of a statement he had made to the police after his arrest. He stated how he had assaulted her because she had infected him. The 27-year-old victim's sister, Eunice Ndobe, yesterday testified in tears that her sister was the only person she had in her life. She said she would never be able to come to terms with her death. “This is very difficult for me. He did not even tell me he was sorry for what he did. He knew she was all I had." The sister said that if the couple had problems, they knew they could have gone to her to talk about it. “What happened is very difficult for me, but I want him to know that I forgive him for what he had done, although he never said he was sorry. I am tired of living in pain.” She told Judge Bam that seeing her sister's killer in court opened the wounds. “You don't get over this pain. You just live with it,” she said. Baloyi chose not to testify to tell the court what happened that day. Judge Bam remarked that it seemed that the killing was not planned, but that it happened on the spur of the moment as the two had a fight. The defence asked the court not to send Baloyi to prison for a long time, because if one considered his age and HIV-status, a long-term imprisonment would be equivalent to a death sentence. But the State argued that Baloyi did not even respect Ndobe’s body after he had killed her, as he simply left it in the shack to rot. Judge Bam was told by the prosecution that femicide was on the rise in the country, especially cases in which women were killed by their partners. In sentencing Baloyi, Judge Bam said the defenceless woman was killed in cold blood by her lover who did not show a shred of remorse. Ndobe's sister, after sentencing, said she did not care what happened to Baloyi from now on.