The SA Federation of Trade Unions (Saftu) and about 20 of its affiliates brought the Joburg CBD to a standstill yesterday as part of its nationwide strike against the national minimum bill and several amendments to the Labour Relations Act. Addressing thousands of workers, Premier David Makhura’s office, and the Health and Labour departments, Vavi, the general secretary of Saftu, lampooned the leaders of Cosatu for signing the minimum wage bill that will see workers being paid about R20 an hour or R3500 a month, once passed. “We have given them the platform to defend the shame that they have signed at Nedlac (the National Economic Development and Labour Council). Today, we have shown them that they are not speaking on behalf of workers. They do not have a mandate. The only mandate they have is Cyril Ramaphosa's mandate, the person they have put in power,” he said. “Have you ever seen foolish workers who take a multimillionaire, put him in power and say he is the one who will liberate workers?” Vavi asked, to applause from workers at the provincial Health Department, just a stone's throw from Luthuli House. Vavi said the minimum wage would not sustain the living conditions of workers. Some employers, he said, would frustrate bargaining in the future and take comfort in paying workers what Vavi called legalised slave wages. The national minimum wage bill was scheduled to be signed into law by May 1, but Labour Minister Mildred Oliphant indicated that certain proposed amendments to the Labour Relations Act relating to strikes still needed to be endorsed by Parliament. Saftu's biggest affiliate Numsa has been the most vocal against the amendments, saying they were meant to weaken the bargaining power of labour and advantage employers. Numsa deputy general secretary Karl Cloete slammed one of the amendments which would allow employers to approach the Commission for Conciliation, Mediation and Arbitration (CCMA) to mediate a settlement should the strike last too long. “We remember what happened in Marikana before the massacre. It took five long months to deal with the demand of R12500. The new amendment seeks to allow the state to intervene to force the employer and employee to settle. We have always understood that when to deal with a strike, it is a balance of power between labour and capital. “In the end it is about who is going to sustain either a lockout or the strike and it must be left to the employer and employees to deal with the matter,” Cloete said. The state's intervention would weaken the power of labour should it be allowed to take part through the amendment as it was not a neutral player, he said. Cloete also took a swipe at the proposed amendment that called for a secret ballot by workers to determine if they wanted to go on strike. “This is a divide and rule tactic. We will oppose it until it is reversed. Why impose a secret ballot on us? It means you want to govern how a trade union does its own work. We have had this under apartheid and we rejected and defeated it. We will reject it even now,” Cloete said. Cosatu indicated it would not back the Saftu strike as it was about political grandstanding, not worker issues. The federation also defended its support for the national minimum wage, saying it would result in pay hikes for thousands of workers currently earning less than R3500.