If he is impeached, Judge Motata will lose his judge’s salary and benefits. The Judicial Conduct Tribunal, which investigated complaints that he should be found guilty of gross misconduct, has found against Judge Motata and recommended  to the Judicial Service Commission that that the provisions of Section 177 (1) (a) of the constitution be invoked - which means possible impeachment. In a damning report, the tribunal found that Judge Motata had acted without integrity when he made racist remarks while under the influence on the scene of the accident in January 2007. “This tribunal has come to the conclusion that Judge Motata’s conduct at the scene of the accident and the remarks he made were racist and thus impinge on and are prejudicial to the impartiality and dignity of the courts,”  KwaZulu-Natal Judge President Achmat Jappie, who headed the tribunal, said in his report. He wrote in the report: “Our constitution protects South African citizens against racism and guarantees their right to dignity.  Our judges are custodians of these rights. “Post-apartheid, our courts have consistently decried persistent racist conduct and affirmed the  right of all South African citizens to dignity. Racist conduct on the part of a judge therefore strikes at the heart of  judicial integrity and impartiality, particularly against the background of South Africa’s apartheid history. “Accordingly, racist conduct  on the part of a judge constitutes gross misconduct.” Judge Jappie said that, similarly, the lack of integrity in the manner in which he allowed his defence to be conducted at his trial, in the view of the tribunal, is incompatible with or unbecoming of the holding of judicial office. “The question to be asked is if Judge Motata is to retain the office of a judicial officer, would this negatively affect the public confidence in the justice system. If the answer is in the in the affirmative, as we suggest it is, then in the discharge of our mandate we recommend that the provisions of Section 177(1) (a) of the constitution be invoked.” The tribunal said in its recommendations that the office of a judge was very respectable and that those who hold this office must be respectable. “ A judge’s conduct, in and out of court, should not dishonour that high office. “Impeccable moral and ethic standing is a crucial hallmark of such a public office. The criminal trial of Judge Motata has placed his conduct  squarely within the public domain. “A question to be asked is: what would be the attitude of an ordinary person, let alone a person of Afrikaner descent, if she/he is to be tried before Judge Motata,” asked Judge Jappie. The tribunal sat in January and heard submissions following complaints levelled against him by AfriForum. The organisation claimed that Judge Motata made racist remarks to Richard Baird, the owner of the house into the wall of which he had crashed. It was found that Judge Motata was driving under the influence of alcohol. He told Baird on the scene of the crash that “no boer is going to undermine me This used to be the white man’s land, but it is not anymore”. He was earlier fined R20000 for driving under the influence. Advocate GC Pretorius of the Joburg Bar complained that Judge Motata had conducted a criminal trial in which he was involved in a manner which was inconsistent with the ethics of judicial office. Judge Motata told the tribunal he did not regard himself as drunk and had only drunk two glasses of wine, which placed him under the limit. He also denied he made racial slur. He added that “boer” was a neutral word. Judge Jappie said it was “patent from the trial record that the utterances made by the judge were replete with vulgarity”. The wheels of justice were grinding particularly slowly in the case of Judge Motata, who had launched numerous constitutional challenges and other applications in a bid to avoid possible impeachment. The Judicial Service Commission now has to consider the recommendations. If it found that he was indeed guilty of gross misconduct, it had to submit its findings and reasons to the Speaker of the National Assembly. A judge can only be impeached (removed from office) by the president following a two-thirds majority vote in the National Assembly. Judge Motata turned 71 in February and has been on pension since last year on full pay. The controversial judge has in fact not been back on the bench since the accident 11 years ago, as he has been on special leave on full pay since then. It was estimated in 2016 that he had already cost the taxpayer about R16million.