But today he is renowned for his animated expressionist drawings and films exploring time, the history of colonialism, and the aspirations and failures of revolutionary politics. Kentridge said failure throughout his life made him the better and greater artist he was today. When he was three he was told he wished to be an elephant, and by the time he turned 15 that changed to musical conductor. However, he was told he had to be able to read music to be one. He then started out as an artist until he was 21, when he felt like he had nothing new to say to his audience. He stopped that too and was an actor; he went to theatre school. Three weeks later it was clear he was not an actor, he said. Next up, he became a film-maker, but everything he turned to flopped. “Years later I returned to art. If I had been slightly less of a bad actor, I could have been an unhappy actor all my life. “If I had tried being a musician, I would have been a bad one. So in the end I can say one can be rescued by failure” He said when things did not work out, people needed to have a longer perspective that made them find themselves and the purpose of the things that weren’t a success. He said the studio for him was a safe space for stupidity, where he drew images and was not asked what they meant. Things were allowed to emerge slowly, he said. Kentridge first achieved international recognition in the 1990s with a series of what he called “drawings for projection”. These short-animated films were based on everyday life under apartheid. From there he widened his thematic range, expanding beyond the local to examine other political conflicts. His oeuvre charts a universal history of war and revolution, evoking the complexities and tensions of post-colonial memory and imaging the residual traces of destructive policies and regimes. The 63-year-old earned a Bachelor of Arts degree in politics and African studies at the University of the Witwatersrand and then a Diploma in Fine Arts from the Johannesburg Art Foundation. In the early 1980s he studied mime and theatre at the L’École Internationale de Théâtre Jacques Lecoq in Paris. He maintained that he was neither an outstanding painter, actor, film-maker or sculptor but rather an animator. He is the director and co-designer of The Nose at the New York Metropolitan Opera. “William Kentridge has been an advocate for the arts in South Africa for decades. His work has been consistently courageous and he is an inspiration to fellow artists and humanists around the world. “We are gladdened by this opportunity to recognise and acknowledge his contribution,” said Professor Vasu Reddy, dean of the Faculty of Humanities at the university. Reddy said despite global acclaim, Kentridge never lost his uniquely South African and African outlook on the world. Kentridge told the hall full of graduates to go out there and not forget to be kind to themselves as a state of anxiety and uncertainty was built within everyone, but to have none of that was to simply close themselves to all of it.