This year, the chief executive of the Nelson Mandela Foundation is trudging back up the arduous 5 895m slog to the highest point in Africa. He’ll do it again next year and the year after as part of a commitment he made to himself five years ago. Codenamed 2020, he wants to have reached 2 million girls, helping them to stay in school, while breaking the taboo on menstruation. Five years ago, Richard Mabaso phoned him. “We speak about the key drivers of patriarchy and toxic masculinity as the issues holding us back as a nation and here was this young man calling me from a tickie box to tell me about his dream to raise funds to provide sanitary pads for poor girls and keep them in school, by climbing Kilimanjaro. “I saw the potential immediately,” he remembers. Trek4Mandela, run by the Imbumba Foundation which Mabaso formed, aims to summit the continent's highest peak every year on July 18, Madiba's birthday, raising awareness of the Caring4Girls campaign and funds to buy sanitary pads to keep girl children in school. The Nelson Mandela Foundation has endorsed it since Mabaso and local Everest legend Sibusiso Vilane first summitted together in 2012. But he didn't climb the mountain immediately. “Three years ago, the managing director of the Banking Association, Cas Coovadia, said to me, ‘you’re always challenging us and you keep going to the airport so see us off. Isn't it time you put your own body behind it?” It struck a chord with Hatang immediately. He had just completed his Desmond Tutu Fellowship the year before and a key component was the need to create community projects. He went back to his hometown, Klerksdorp, to push the Trek4Mandela, not just to increase the number of beneficiaries but to get them to participate, raising funds to help others in need. “How much more can we build the Madiba legacy than to get people to take charge of their own lives?” he asks rhetorically. “Richard and I went to Klerksdorp and challenged women to raise funds for sanitary pads.” It was right there that Hatang had his next epiphany.  “A group of women who had been helping us with our quest went to the office of one of the managers and she made them close the door before she started weeping. “They had no idea what was happening. They looked at each other in embarrassment, wondering what they had done to cause offence. Suddenly the woman looked at them through her tears, ‘I was once that girl’, she said. “Immediately I thought of my own childhood, of an illiterate mother who gave her all to educate my two brothers and my three sisters. Her one son died, but she got the rest of us educated. She never compromised. We had to be at school, rain or shine, sick of healthy. The only exceptions were my sisters - at a certain time each month. “It only dawned on me then that it might have been because my sisters had the same struggle. “We are trying to build a value-based system for our society in the post-Mandela era. How can we care more than ensuring people don't lose their dignity? I remember what Gerry Elsdon said when she summitted Kilimanjaro: ‘We climb Kili so no child must climb a mountain when they go to school’. “If we are to be the legacy, as the foundation enjoins us in this centenary year, if we are to find the Madiba in ourselves, we must find ways of changing the life of at least one person.” He tells the story of when he went to a Tembisa school talking to children about Mandela Day. The organisers had run out of the high leather chairs for the dignitaries on the podium, so Hatang found a stackable chair among the kids. He found himself next to Nthabiseng. She was using crutches. “I asked her; ‘were you born like this?’ She said ‘no, I woke up like this one morning in 2010. I couldn’t move. My parents thought I was kidding’.” The doctor confirmed she was paralysed. That same year, she lost her mother, but says Hatang in wonder, Nthabiseng was a bundle of joy and energy not to let her circumstances get her down in any way. “If that had been my child, I would have gone for a second opinion, a third, a fourth. She never got that chance. Her parents couldn't give that to her. That's the burden I'm talking about." This is a particularly special year for the foundation, marking the centenary of Mandela’s birthday. April 9 will mark the start of the 100-day countdown to Mandela Day on July 18, when a whole raft of initiatives will be announced, all focusing on the three-pronged approach of: building a values based society; being the legacy; and, finding the Madiba in ourselves. “The key,” says Hatang, “is to build our society through service, not just for 67 minutes once a year, but service every day.” The foundation has endorsed over 500 projects, of which Trek4Mandela is one, some of which will run from April and others which will run the entire year until July 18 next year. On April 27, there will be a special discussion on Madiba's legacy at the UN in Geneva, focusing on how to rid the world of racism, while July 18 will see a special debate at the UN General Assembly in New York on his legacy. “In South Africa,” says Hatang, “the special focus will be on poverty and inequality, focusing on how we can respond to statistics that suggest 25% of all children suffer from stunting (this is as a result of 
malnutrition).” Early childhood development centres will be another priority. “We need to ensure that 100% of all children between 0-6 are in these centres. You know, we're obsessed by old-age pensions and grants and who will pay for them and distribute them, but what about the children? Instead of caring, we are actually poisoning the future. “How are the children who are not privileged, supported?” he asks. “One of my colleagues, Khalil Goga, always reminds us ‘we are investing in a future that will not have people who will inherit it'.” This year will be the one year that Hatang doesn't summit Kilimanjaro on July 18. He can't because he will be overseeing the Mandela Day celebrations back here and hosting one of the biggest ever international guest speakers to present the annual Mandela Day lecture the day before the summit. But he'll be back on top of the world on August 9, when he leads a special expedition of CEOs and foreign ambassadors to Kilimanjaro to remember Mandela on Women's Day. The boots in the glass case in his office are there for a reason. Climbing the mountain resonates with him in so many ways, the analogies presenting themselves at every step upwards: “We all carry a heavy burden, the least we can do is lighten the load for those who can't do it for themselves. “As we climb Kilimanjaro, there are guys the who carry our stuff for us. We only carry between 5kg and 10kg of water, food and personal kit. These guys carry the rest, 20kg - from Day 1. “Everyone wants to summit some mountain. Theirs (the porters) could be anything from just getting out of poverty to creating a better life for their children. “They're lightening my load and yours for us to succeed, to get to the top of the actual mountain. "In turn we must lighten the loads for the generations to come.” Kevin Ritchie is part of this year's Trek4Mandela Centenary expedition to raise awareness and money for sanitary pads to keep girl children in school. If you would like to support Caring4Girls SMS Kevin to 42513 to pledge R30 towards this cause.