The matter has its roots in the plan by the world athletics governing body to introduce new regulations governing the eligibility of females with hyperandrogenism. The IAAF council last month approved a proposal to limit naturally produced testosterone for women who participate in distances that range from 400m up to and including one mile. “Following some further drafting, the regulations will be communicated to(the Court of Arbitration for Sport) CAS before being released,” the IAAF said.“It is anticipated that the regulations will go into effect on 
November 1.” The Irish Times revealed yesterday that the IAAF would later this week reveal the new regulations. “This is one of the toughest subjects my council and I are discussing,” IAAF president Sebastian Coe said. “This is not about cheating. No hyperandrogenic athlete has cheated. This is about our responsibility as a sports federation to ensure a level playing field; to decide the rules, to draw the lines for competition. “We choose to have two classifications for our competition - men's events and women's events.” In July 2015, the Court of Arbitration for Sport (CAS) asked the IAAF to provide further evidence of the advantage hyperandrogenic female athletes had over athletes with "normal" testosterone levels. The IAAF first introduced new rules and regulations in 2011 which allowed females with hyperandrogenism to compete in the "women's competition in athletics provided that she has androgen levels below the male range". The new regulations target Semenya whether directly or indirectly with the South African regularly participating over all three distances. She has been a dominant force in her specialist 800m since CAS suspended the IAAF regulations and has recently been making serious inroads in the 1500m. Semenya has been the dominant force in the two-lap event, going unbeaten in 22 finals including the Rio 2016 Olympic Games and last year’s World Championships in London. Arguably South Africa’s greatest female track athlete of all time, Semenya became only the third woman to win the 800/1500m double gold at this year's Commonwealth Games. The Irish Times revealed that the new regulations will be adopted for a separate female classification which will be known as Athlete with Differences of Sexual Development (or DSD). Women with DSD will be allowed to compete in national competitions from the 400m up to the mile, in male or "intersex" classified races without the limitations of the new 
regulations. In justifying the new regulations, the IAAF suggests there are a “significant over-representation of DSD athletes in certain events” with their success in those events corroborating their evidence. The Irish Times listed the IAAF's new rules including how it would enforce it while the governing body would give athletes until November 1, 2018, to comply. “This evidence shows clearly that (at least in certain events) DSD athletes with levels of circulating testosterone in the normal male range have a very significant competitive advantage over female athletes with testosterone levels in the normal female range. This justifies requiring DSD athletes to reduce their testosterone levels down to the normal female range in order to compete in the female classification in such events,” the Irish Times quoted the IAAF.