This relates to the charges the commission laid against Momberg when she stalled from July last year in launching her leave to appeal application after being found 
guilty of hate speech by the Equality Court. However, Momberg’s lawyer Kingdom Onah is confident of successfully appealing both the hate speech ruling and the crimen injuria criminal conviction and sentencing. Momberg was sentenced to an effective two years’ imprisonment last week for a 2016 racist diatribe she launched at police officers and 10111 operators shortly after being involved in a robbery in Joburg. The SAHRC last November took Momberg to the Equality Court, which found her guilty of hate speech and ordered her to pay R100000 to policeman David Mkhondo, who was one of the officers she called the “k” word. She was also ordered to attend an integrated community service programme and sensitivity training administered by the SAHRC. Yesterday, SAHRC spokesperson Gushwell Brooks said they had become frustrated at Momberg’s delaying tactics in appealing the hate speech judgment, and sent letters of demand to her in November, which she didn’t adhere to. “As a result an application against Ms Momberg for contempt was launched on March 8. “Ms Momberg contacted the commission’s attorneys requesting an extension in order to serve her answering papers to the contempt proceedings. The extension was granted to April 6, 2018, on condition that no further indulgences would be given,” Brooks said. Onah said yesterday they were “pretty confident” in overturning the criminal conviction and the hate speech finding. “The reason (is) that we believe that the magistrate erred in her judgment. She did not take all the evidence into totality when she found her (Momberg) guilty on the charge of crimen injuria. “She sentenced Momberg without considering other forms of punishment, which were recommended by the probation officer report that was read out in court,” Onah said. “She chose to sentence her to direct imprisonment of two years. We feel that the magistrate over-emphasised on the interests of society and neglected (Momberg’s) personal circumstances,” Onah added, alluding to Momberg’s robbery before her racist invective. Momberg appeared in the Randburg Magistrate’s Court yesterday sporting a stylish new hair style. She has been in jail for over a week and was in court for leave to appeal her conviction and sentencing. The hearing was postponed to next week because Momberg’s defence advocate Kevin Lawlor was ill. Momberg became a topic on Twitter when she appeared with her dark shoulder-length hair in cornrows. @paballo_patsa said: “I wonder who actually sat down and  did her cornrows this is truly funny and confusing at the same time.” @Azanian said: “You see #VickiMomberg Africans are good people. Look at how good you look. Ba go logile shame (they did your hair).”