A total of 119 sinkholes have been recorded in the Centurion area between the early 1970s and 2012 - and the situation is not getting any better. The latest sinkhole is on the R55 Quagga Road in Laudium, which caved in on Saturday night. Two walls of nearby private residences in the suburb were also affected. Gauteng Premier David Makhura, Roads and Transport MEC Dr Ismail Vadi, mayor Solly Msimanga and MMC for roads and transport Sheila Lynn Senkubuge visited the area yesterday. During their visit, they reported there were 24 sinkholes in the metro alone, of which 23 were in the Centurion, Laudium and Olievenhoutbosch region. According to Vadi,  “the moving target" was growing bigger and bigger. “Heavy rainfalls are playing an integral part in causing sinkholes in the area,” he said. There were at least eight sinkholes to be attended to in Laudium, and some had not been repaired for two years. According to Vadi, the Centurion area, especially along the R55, was particularly prone to sinkholes because of the high dolomite 
presence. Vadi pleaded for patience and said sinkholes took time to repair. Two weeks ago, a Mazda 6 fell into a sinkhole on Stephanus Schoeman Road in Centurion owing to the persistent rainfall. Mpho Borodi was driving to work when the weight of the his car was suddenly too heavy for the ground during a storm. Another massive sinkhole is in Centurion, on the corner of Gerhard Street and Jean Avenue. It is under repair - 36% done - and costing the City R45 million. A section of the R55 has been partially cordoned off due to the sinkhole, and law enforcement agencies were deployed to the area to monitor the situation. The sinkhole on the R55, which appeared two weeks ago, is about 8m deep and will continue to get deeper. Last Monday the provincial Department of Roads and Transport closed off the affected section after massive cracks appeared on the road surface. Traffic was diverted as a precautionary measure. Local councillor Mohamed Essop said he was made aware of the 
cracks and immediately notified Vadi. He said repairs for this sinkhole could not be done immediately, because they wanted to wait for it to collapse completely. Repairing it anytime before that could risk the lives of those doing the work, and it could possibly collapse again. “We cannot give you a time span. I don’t want to say three or four months. "We have to wait for nature to take its course,” said Vadi. Until then the road would be cordoned off. The repairs would cost between R40 and 50 million. He said the department would have to do filling and compacting before restoring the road surface, which could take more time. Vadi warned that the surrounding ground was very unstable and would continue to collapse.“Further collapses are imminent,” he said. Makhura said 25% of land in Gauteng was dolomitic. Dolomite formed a loose belt around Joburg, stretching from Westonaria in the west to Centurion in the north and Thokoza in the east. “In the capital, Centurion is terribly affected by dolomite,” said Makhura. In the past 50 years, sinkholes in the provinces have killed 40 people. “I'm glad this was not the case in these recent cases,” he said. Makhura said a previous sinkhole at a road near the Gautrain Centurion station previously cost R46m to repair. He said it can become very expensive to repair sinkholes in geologically unstable areas. Msimanga said the City was already treating three of the eight sinkholes. “We are now dealing with three in this financial year and will only be able to budget for the next three sinkholes in the next  financial year. The other two which are smaller will be treated temporarily,” he said. They asked for patience and understanding from residents while infrastructure was being repaired and said communities needed to be resettled from high risk places. Makhura said it was often difficult to explain to communities that they could not build their houses in dolomitic areas for safety reasons. Msimanga, on the other hand, said there were numerous infrastructure challenges in the metro, with the cost of replacing asbestos pipes alone estimated at as much as R2 billion. Affected resident Khalid Esmail said he welcomed the government’s support for security during this time.