Yesterday, Cosatu general secretary Bheki Ntshalintshali used his address to the 25th commemoration of the death of Struggle hero Chris Hani to announce that they intended to submit a memorandum to the minister, who is also SACP general secretary, rejecting e-tolls. The SACP and Cosatu were united in their campaign to have former president Jacob Zuma ousted. “We are excited that he (Nzimande) is now the minister of transport. We intend to march on him (to his offices) on Friday, not as an enemy but to remind him that we reject e-tolls,” he said. Nzimande, also speaking at the Hani commemoration in Boksburg, Ekurhuleni, lamented the legacy of the ruling alliance in transforming the country for the benefit of the previously oppressed majority. Nzimande said the country's transformation agenda had not been successful due to the capture of leaders by corporate interests and their personal ambitions which resulted in corruption. “One of the biggest challenges we are facing is that we won elections in 1994 and our goal was to use state power to transform our country and to transform the conditions of our people for the better. But if we speak the truth the opposite has happened,” he said. “We have been captured by state power, behind it being corporate interests which led to the emergence of this phenomenon that we call state capture. "What we need in the name of Chris Hani is a new cadre in our movement, who must treat deployment as service to the people and (not) an opportunity for personal accumulation,” Nzimande said. The ANC, which lost two key metros in Gauteng during the 2016 local government elections, partly because of e-tolls, is bracing itself for a tough contest in the 2019 general elections. The DA has moved its headquarters from the Western Cape to Gauteng as it prepares to try to wrest control of the province from the ANC. Nzimande said it would be disastrous if the ANC lost power next year. Hani, a former SACP general secretary, chief of staff of  Umkhonto we Sizwe and a member of the ANC national executive committee,was gunned down outside his Boksburg home in 1993 by right-wing extremist and Polish immigrant Janusz Walu, who is still serving his life term for the killing. Co-accused Clive Derby-Lewis, who provided the gun that was used, was granted a medical parole in 2015 before he died the following year.