RAPULA MOATSHE THE R300 million social housing project called Thembelihle Village in the Pretoria inner-city must be seen as a shining example of the same kind of developments in future, said human settlements minister Nomaindiya Mfeketo. She spoke at a ceremony to officially launch the rental stock housing units initiated by the government in 2014 and completed in November last year. Mfeketo said: "This is really a turning-point on how we must build to develop our communities.This must be the barometer and anything less than what we see here (won't be acceptable)." She said the way rooms were built there must be taken into account before contractors could be given work. "I can tell you that it is a combination of the national province and the City of Tshwane coming together and creating a wonderful place. That is not building a house for somebody, but building a home for someone," she said. She said the project demonstrated that the mandate of her department went beyond providing just RDP houses. "Our department is at the heart of facilitating sustainable and integrated human settlement," she said. Mfeketo said the building of the precinct in the CBD was a way of undoing the racialised legacy of apartheid's spatial planning.
She said the development's success can be attributed to the co-operation of the three spheres of government. The occasion was also graced by City mayor Solly Msimanga and Gauteng MEC for human settlements Uhuru Moila. Mfeketo said: "With social housing projects we address the challenges of the so-called gap market of people who earn from R3 500 up to R15 000. This category of people do not earn enough to qualify for a mortgage through our banks, but earn too much to qualify for free a household  RDP." Msimanga said: "There is nothing that gives somebody aa much pride as having a roof over their head." He said the City had at least 220 000 people who were still on the housing waiting list. "We have 120 informal settlements in the City that still need to be addressed," he said. He said previously people had to travel for a long distance to work and that would be a thing of the past after the establishment of Thembelihle.
"We want to ensure that those who are coming from the peripheries don't have to travel very far," he said.