Easter Baloyi was speaking during his memorial service at N’wa-Mhinga Primary School attended by pupils, teachers, residents and family members. Police have arrested Amos Maluleke, 42, in connection with the murder, but could not confirm speculation he had been out on parole. A case of rape has since also been opened against the suspect. Maluleke appeared at the Atteridgeville Magistrate’s Court on Wednesday, where disgruntled community members went to show support to the family. He was denied bail. Hlayisani went missing last Saturday. On Monday, he was found by residents in front of a shack at Tsunami informal settlement, not too far from his home. He had allegedly been raped. His torn pants were soaked in blood. He wore a vest, with no shoes. In addition, his neck had been twisted. His grandmother said they last saw him on Saturday night at a party. After a frantic two day search a community member told Baloyi her grandson was last seen with Maluleke leaving the party at around 9pm. Maluleke was allegedly out on parole for about seven years after serving 21 years for rape. Baloyi said they learnt late on Sunday evening that the boy had last been seen with the suspect. “We went to his house, but he wouldn't open the door. The following day we were called to a grisly scene. "I could not believe my eyes. I saw a bloodied Hlayisani lying there. His neck had been twisted; that is how I will always remember him,” the 45-year-old said. Baloyi said Maluleke never posed any danger to the community, and they trusted him after his release from prison years ago. He was a nice person who had girlfriends, but he never dated one person for too long.” She said Hlayisani was a happy, loving child. Teachers at the school described Hlayisani as a child full of life. “He was a loving and bright child. If other children did not have stationery he would share with them. It is a great loss." “We were with him on Friday, then on Monday we received the news of his tragic passing.” The first person to discover the battered body said it was at around 5am. She screamed and called other residents. They later called the police. Officers removed the body at around 7am. Residents went to the suspect's house and demanded he open the door. He refused, but did when they threatened to break it down. They found him hiding in a toilet. Wet pants and a curtain soaked in blood were found in the house, the resident said. “We called the police because we were scared of what he might do to us.” After his arrest, residents forced his tenants out of his yard, accusing them of not saying anything despite being aware he had the boy. Another resident said: “In court, that man had the nerve to say he wanted bail and that he was innocent. I couldn’t believe it.” The burial is tomorrow.