It is not surprising to see the racial slurs on social media at the time of her death. It is expected because many media giants and pro-apartheid agents tried hard to erase her out of our liberation history, but Winnie Mandela’s name remains written in bold form in our memories. Her contribution to black South Africa transcends borders and she is a beacon of hope for the wretched of the earth in Third World countries. When most poor women of colour never thought they could challenge brutal regimes, Winnie Mandela did! In the process she incurred many negative labels (sexually immoral, mammy, welfare queen, witch etc) in both journalistic and public discourse specifically for her role in the 1980s necklacing; Stompie Seipei’s murder and the alleged love affairs. All these remind us how stereotypes associated with black women in particular help justify their oppressions up to this day. Winnie did not fit the stereotype of black women, which forces many of us to operate within a strict social and moral code that requires submission. She could not be contained. She refused to succumb to the “culture of dissemblance” that often forces black women to carry the burden of protecting themselves from the “self”. Winnie cared less about concealing her true self from judgement by the unjust world. Instead of concealing her emotions for sexual desire to protect herself from the systems that demanded her to lead an asexual life, she chose to have a lover while her husband was serving a life sentence. This was one of her greatest crimes to South African public. The unfair and unjust world she lived in expected her to stand upright in a crooked room, to use Melissa Harris-Perry’s phraseology. Her crime, unlike many women who put on positive and alternative images to survive this hostile patriarchal world, was that she did not yield to those expectations. Even when Mandela’s politics shifted from his radical stance in prison to those of reconciliation and forgiveness, Winnie stood her ground and never bought into this project. This intensified her infamy with proponents of “rainbowism” in South Africa. On the TRC (Truth and Reconciliation Commission) and the Stompie killings, we also are aware of the hypocrisy that plays out within Rainbow circles.  Under normal circumstances the majority of our “rainbowists” in South Africa who pretended to care about Stompie’s case were only doing it to vilify Winnie rather than as an act of humanity and demand for justice. Many did not care about Stompie’s sufferings and death, nor the well-being of his family. I argue so because there were and still are many Stompies in this country who continue to be brutally murdered and we don’t see the same kind of energy being unleashed in demand for justice. Winnie provided the propaganda machinery for the likes of the security police’s Stratcom unit with ammunition. Nonetheless, for those families and friends who lost  their loved ones through “necklacing” and activities of the Mandela Football Club, the image of a heroine will be like swallowing a bitter pill, as will those who suffered torture and lost lives through betrayals by impimpis, understandably because all lives matter. Equally so, to those who knew the brutality of the state, both during and post-apartheid, life without Winnie Mandela will be unthinkable. She remained the voice of the poor defying the rigidly controlled public performance of black women within a patriarchal society such as ours. As Lucky Mathebula notes, “out of her womb many radical feminists were born in South Africa”. She rebelled against injustice and was never willing to be silenced by agents of “progressive politics”. She was harshly criticised by her own comrades who thought she was bringing the organisation into disrepute. She consistently violated the code of dissemblance and invited scrutiny of black women. By remaining silent as black women, we have allowed degrading stereotypes to flourish at a high cost to our political agendas. I urge all radical feminists to take a leaf out of Winnie Mandela’s life, understanding that life is full of complexities and she was human like the rest of us. Complexities are part of our realities. Winnie Mandela: heroine; villain or both? Judge for yourself Edith Dinong Kekana-Phaswana: senior lecturer: Thabo Mbeki African Leadership Institute, Unisa.