Speaking on behalf of the Premier David Makhura, Mayathula-Khoza said the provincial government was saddened by the passing of Madikizela-Mandela. “It is with great sorrow that I stand here following the passing of the mother of our nation, freedom fighter and leader of the anti-apartheid Struggle comrade Winnie Madikizela-Mandela. “As a nation, we are pained and deeply afflicted by the passing of Mama Winnie. Umthi omkhulu uwile, indeed a great tree has fallen.” She said the life of Mama Winnie Mandela represented an unwavering commitment to the values of freedom and justice; a life whose spirit was continuously revived by the realities of politics that oppressed her people. “In the face of the oppressive apartheid regime, Comrade Winnie was able to re-strategise, re-organise and re-commit herself to a just politics that comes from the heart. “A politics that transcends acclaim, support and votes, a politics that abounds in hope and justice for all. Comrade Winnie was indeed a woman of faith, who held the church in high regard, and in her activism was involved with the church in fighting the despicable apartheid regime.” The Interfaith Sector Parliament brought together various religious and faith-based organisations to solicit their input on how they could play a role in decision-making concerning the running of the province by participating in legislative processes. Mayathula-Khoza urged religious leaders and faith-based organisations to promote peace and unity in the country’s diverse communities. Legislature Speaker Ntombi Mekgwe presided over the event under the theme, “Making your future better, learning from Madiba”. Mekgwe was tasked with ensuring that the event assisted the legislature to reinforce its moral duty and obligation to initiate just and ethical legislation. “Our faith-based organisations played a crucial role in supporting us and the families of those that were affected by the Life Esidimeni tragedy. We are of the firm belief that had it not been for many prayers, meditation and petitions that this sector made, we would have not been able to deal with this unfortunate occurrence.” Mayathula-Khoza said it was of vital importance for the country to main its values of peace, honesty and justice in an effort to shape a desired future. See Pages 7 and 9