The main ANC memorial services will be held at Joburg’s Standard Bank Arena and Madikizela-Mandela’s birthplace in Bizana, Eastern Cape, on Monday. The ANC was also expected to use the memorial services of Solomon Mahlangu tomorrow in Pretoria and that of SACP leader Chris Hani on Tuesday next week to honour Madikizela-Mandela. Yesterday, ANC secretary-general Ace Magashule announced a  detailed 10-day mourning period leading up to the funeral on April 14. “The passing of ANC veteran leader and Struggle icon Winnie Madikizela-Mandela was a national tragedy”. Magashule said Madikizela-Mandela’s legacy touched many lives in South Africa and beyond its boundaries. The ANC said it received messages of condolence from the African Union Commission and Palestine, Swapo and their fraternal structures throughout the world. “Winnie Madikizela-Mandela’s life was that of commitment, servitude and selflessness. It is indeed a national tragedy, albeit inevitable, in that those we hold in high esteem may not be with us physically forever. However, their legacy and footprints continue to remind us of their eternal presence among us. As South Africans we are united in conveying a shared loss to the family and kin”. Magashule said the ANC was heartened by the cross-section of South Africans from different walks of life who have reached out to the family and conveyed messages of hope and goodwill. “Over the last two days it has been evident that uMama Winnie Madikizela-Mandela, during her lifetime, touched many lives in the country and beyond.” He said the 10-day mourning period began yesterday when his party’s deputy president David Mabuza and treasurer-general Paul Mashatile, as well as ANC alliance partners SACP and Cosatu visited Madikizela-Mandela’s home in Soweto to pay condolences to her family. Scores of ANC supporters including the ANC Women’s League and ANC Youth League leaders also converged at the family home to celebrate the life of the Struggle icon. Magashule said that in Joburg today all ANC national executive committee members would descend on the Orlando West home of Madikizela-Mandela in Soweto. Later a gala dinner will be held at Freedom Park in Pretoria in memory of Solomon Mahlangu who was hanged on April 6, 1979. On Friday, the ANC has organised a memorial lecture for Mahlangu at Vista University in Mamelodi. Prior to the service, ANC members would converge at the Kgosi Mampuru Correctional Service - formerly Pretoria Central Prison - where Mahlangu was hanged by the apartheid government. On Saturday, ANC members would clean one of the hospices in Soweto and the next day, ANC leaders would address various churches in the country. “This was a request from the different churches who have dedicated their sermons in memory of Winnie Madikizela-Mandela,” Magashule said. He also said memorial services would be held in other parts of the country, including in Brandfort, in the Free State, to which Madikizela-Mandela was banished to in 1977. Deputy President David Mabuza said yesterday funeral preparations for Madikizela-Mandela were well on track, Government was this morning expected to provide details of the preparations.