National Funeral Practitioners Association of South Africa (NafupaSA), Black First Land First (BLF), Amadelangokubona Business Forum, Asidle Sonki Business Forum and National Unemployed People’s Trust have all requested the donations to be deposited into an Absa account. Amadelangokubona deputy president Ntsiki Ncayiyana said the account belongs to the Jacob Zuma Trust, which the former president had been using to provide scholarships to needy students for their tertiary education fees. Ncayiyana said the money raised would pay for buses to transport Zuma supporters from across the country. “We requested to use the trust fund for donations because we wanted an account which had all paperwork so that whoever is in charge of the account would be liable for each and every cent that comes,” said Ncayiyana. No deposits had yet been made into the account, he said. NafupaSA president Muzi Hlengwa said members of the groups, who are mostly business owners, would foot the bill to transport supporters when Zuma appears in the Durban High Court on Friday. Zuma is expected appear before Judge Themba Sishi on 16 charges of corruption, money laundering and racketeering in connection with the controversial arms deal. National Director of Public Prosecutions Shaun Abrahams recently reinstated the charges after he was compelled to by the Gauteng High Court, Pretoria, and the Supreme Court of Appeal. After a meeting to finalise the Zuma support campaign yesterday, Hlengwa said they would hold a night vigil in a huge marquee at Albert Park between 6pm tomorrow and 6am on Friday. “Leaders of various religious groups will be praying for Zuma in his difficult time,” he said. He said the eThekwini Municipality had granted them a permit to march from Botha’s Park to court on Friday morning. “The leaders will be inside the courtroom while the majority will be outside. The transport will be available for the duration of the trial,” he said. BLF leader Andile Mngxitama requested all members of the public, irrespective of their political affiliation to participate. The Department of Justice  said seating would be limited inside the court. “The court has a maximum capacity of 40 seats; as such we request that media houses assist us in sending accreditation for one person only to be seated inside the courtroom. "Special interest groups are also kindly requested to submit accreditation requests,” read a statement from the department. Zuma’s controversial son Edward Zuma issued a statement yesterday attacking Police Minister Bheki Cele for calling for his father and his supporters to stop mobilising for support ahead of the court appearance on Friday. “It would be absurd to deny people the opportunity to show their support and vent anger at these ludicrous charges laid against Jacob Zuma. “The name of the ANC was never used by the Zuma family but as a member of the ANC I shall be attending court in my own ANC shirt,” Edward said. Mngxitama accused Cele of intimidating Zuma supporters. “We view this as pure intimidation,” he said.