Regional secretary Mpho Tladinyane said Dhlamini was disgruntled after the City of Tshwane allegedly failed to follow proper procedures to suspend him. He claimed Dhlamini was denied the right of reply to a letter informing him of the intention to place him on suspension. The letter was penned by city manager Dr Moeketsi Mosola and handed to Dhlamini two weeks ago. In the letter, Dhlamini was given 48 hours to make representations on why he should not be suspended. Tladinyane said the union had made attempts to make representations on behalf of Dhlamini by writing to Mosola, but he failed to respond. “In pursuit of addressing the matter, Samwu wrote a letter to the city manager requesting further particulars in relation to the alleged misconduct. This would have allowed Samwu to make an informed representation in respect of the matter. The employer did not respond but issued a suspension letter instead,” said Tladinyane. He said the union had resolved to refer the matter to the Bargaining Council, where it would formally contest Dhlamini’s unfair 
suspension. “Samwu has noted with concern allegations that the city manager has committed to deal harshly with those appointed by the former (ANC) administration. We therefore view this as a form of purging those who are seen to be close to the former administration,” Tladinyane said. Dhlamini’s suspension was reportedly in relation to a forensic probe related to financial 
misconduct. Although details regarding the nature of Dhlamini's alleged transgression were sketchy, the City said it viewed the matter in a serious light. Mosola said it was possible for Dhlamini to tamper with the evidence pertaining to the investigation should he be allowed to report for duty, and thus instructed him to vacate the City premises with immediate effect. MMC for community safety Anniruth Kissoonduth said Dhlamini’s suspension was officially effected last Friday. He, however, said the matter was in Mosola's hands. “He was officially suspended and the issue is with the city manager. That is not my domain. The forensics were done by the city manager. It falls under the administrative side of the city manager,” Kissoonduth said. The suspension was made amid rumours within the department that it was politically motivated. Insiders said it could be linked to messages that did the rounds on social media about his imminent arrest by the Hawks. Dhlamini's alleged wrongdoing surfaced a year after former chief of police Steven Ngobeni was fired last April. Ngobeni landed in hot water after he allegedly refused to obey an order to remove ANC councillors during the State of Capital Address last year. Dhlamini is no stranger to 
controversy. In 2015, he was alleged to have benefited from tenders awarded by the City to private security service providers owned by his relatives. At the time, the public protector said he was being investigated to establish if he influenced the tenders awarded by the City and facilitated by the Tshwane Metro Police Department in 2013. The investigation looked at whether the City had irregularly awarded tenders for the security services to two companies with links to the deputy chief of police. The tenders in question had been awarded to Rivoningo Security Services and Harama Security Services. The owner of Harama Security Services was believed to be a sister-in-law of Dhlamini.