Matlhatsi Dibakwane ALL the parents of the late Olerato Chiloane-Makena, 5, wanted in the Pretoria North Magistrate’s Court yesterday was an apology from those implicated in his death. But instead, Reshoketswe Makena and Goodman Chiloane said they only heard denials, which left them even more frustrated.
Little Olerato was run over by a black Jeep Compass outside his grandparents’ home in Soshanguve Block H a week after his fifth birthday in 2013. The alleged driver Sarah Mothapo and her then boyfriend Donald Khoza appeared on charges of culpable homicide and failure to assist the injured the child at the time. 
Samuel Kgalakgosi, who was an officer at Soshanguve police station at the time of the tragedy, appeared on charges of defeating the ends of justice. According to witnesses, Mothapo was driving a Jeep Compass and had attended a party in the area. They further claimed that from the event, she went to Chillies, a famous joint in Soshanguve, where she found Khoza with another woman. The two women started a fight, after which Mothapo reportedly sped off. 
They claimed the car hit Olerato in the process. The witnesses recalled the driver saying, “wait, did I hit something or someone”, and then driving off. It was alleged that she and her passengers conspired and asked another woman, Mantshole Moekwa, to take responsibility for the accident. Moekwa was allegedly promised R15 000 to take the fall. In court yesterday, Mothapo and Khoza, through their legal representatives, asked the magistrate to acquit them of the charges because the credibility of the State witnesses was questionable, but this was denied. Prosecutor Kgakgamatso Letsholo emphasised that witnesses implicated Mothapo and said the she should take the stand. 
He said it was clear that as a reasonable driver, she did not reduce speed when it was clear that there were people in the street. Nor did she stop to help after hitting the child. She also went to extreme lengths to cover it up. Mothapo took the stand and rejected the claims, saying she had a witness who would confirm that she was at Centurion Lake Hotel and only left the hotel on Sunday to go visit a friend in that area. “I asked accused number two (Khoza) to take me to Centurion Lake Hotel. I left the Jeep in the garage and he took me to the hotel with a Mercedes-Benz,” she said. She said after hearing that her Jeep had been involved in the gruesome accident she asked Khoza what happened and he told her the driver was Mantshole Moekwa.  The case was postponed to May 16. Makena afterwards told the Pretoria News she was sickened by the extent to which the accused went to cover up the incident all these years.
“It’s been five years and my son would have been 10 years old now. Donald is my homeboy; the decent thing they could have done if they were afraid of going to the police was to come to my home and just apologise. “I don’t wish for Sarah to leave her children and go to jail, but now the level of evil in this is at another (level). You would even think it was intentional,” she said. “I just wanted this thing to be dropped; what’s the use because my child is gone? What kind of person is she; is she that heartless? I know these things happen; it can happen to anyone, even me. The least she could have done was to apologise and stopped this charade of lies.” 
Makena said the case was pulling her into the dark place she was five years ago. Chiloane had tears in his eyes when the court adjourned after Mothapo rejected the claims. 
He said it was painful to still hear the accused insisting the claims were false. He was barely coping, he said. “It is unfortunate that this kind of thing happened. It has been very difficult and I want justice to take its course because these people are just walking freely. 
“We plead with the justice system to take into consideration that it has been five years of frustrations and pain.”