Located in the east of Pretoria, the ward has traditionally been a DA stronghold, but will also be contested by the ANC and EFF. It includes suburbs such as Elardus Park, Wingate Park, Moreleta Park and Rietvalleirand. The position became vacant after former ward councillor Rita Aucamp retired from politics two months ago. Yesterday, all parties expressed confidence in the ward candidates nominated to go head-to-head in the by-election. The DA announced Darryl Johnston as its candidate and believed it would retain the ward. Party leader in Tshwane, Abel Tau, endorsed Johnston as a candidate for the ward. “I am happy to inform the residents of Ward 47 that Darryl Johnston has the support of the DA, and that he will serve them with diligence,” he said. He thanked Aucamp for the work she had done over the years. “We urge residents to lend us their vote once more, so that we can keep making progress in Ward 47. "It won’t happen overnight but we are bringing about total change in the capital. We are hard at work repairing the damage done by years of ANC corruption,” he said. EFF leader Benjamin Disoloane was pleased with the positive response from residents during the recent campaigns. His party is fielding Abongile Ratlaza as its candidate and believed it would perform well in the contest. He said the EFF continued to maintain a winning attitude despite the fact that the ward has traditionally been governed by the DA. “We are going into the by-elections with a winning attitude. We are aware that this has always been a white-dominated ward. However, the response we have been getting is positive. The EFF is for everybody.” The ANC nominated Beverly Brown, who has been a party member for more 30 years. Brown is fondly known as “Bev” and has been a resident of Elardus Park for the past 20 years. She has been described as a social activist, who is passionate about the upliftment of local communities. Brown said: “As an ordinary community member, and after 24 years of having a DA-led ward, I have yet to receive any direct correspondence through community invitations or engagements from the previous ward councillor. I, however, consider myself fortunate as I was a ward committee member and participated in issues tabled. The DA ward councillor never attended a single meeting and these issues were never implemented. For me, this serves as a lesson on how ‘not to treat’ the community,” she said. Meanwhile, Marcus Venter, a community liaison member of the Waltloo Industrialists Association’s management committee, lamented the deterioration of the infrastructure under the DA. Venter said the association has decided to put up posters in Ward 47 to contradict the DA’s message of continuing making progress. The posters read: “Really? What progress?”