This will be the case when Breaking Down Borders Africa Youth Summit 2018 kicks off next month in Pretoria and Joburg, attended by more than 100 youth leaders from at least 30 countries. The summit takes place from May 14 to 18 under the theme “African Youth, Building our Legacy”. The leaders are nominated by their peers and scrutinised by a panel of elders from the Breaking Down Borders Initiative board of advisers. Last year’s inaugural event saw more than 60 young people from 15 countries take part in the two-day conference, which included a visit to the Union Buildings. Young leaders, entrepreneurs, activists and influencers in the arts, academic and intelligentsia spaces exchanged ideas and challenged each other. The four-day summit was launched to a captive audience at Brand South Africa last month. The company’s strategic manager, Toni Gumede, described their collaboration with the summit as “a natural marriage”. “The summit resonates with what our organisation is about, specifically with the mandate that is articulated in the National Development Plan regarding strategic and critical intra-Africa relations. “This seeks to do what we aspire people to do - break down borders by building an active citizenship and inspiring new ways of doing things,” she said. Organising committee member Lorato Modongo, a young academic and gender activist from Botswana, spoke about Africa’s need for self-
sufficiency and youth leadership. Modongo said the theme was inspired by the Nelson Mandela centenary call to action to “Be the Legacy”. She said that young people through their energy, thinking, and innovations were one of Africa’s biggest assets. Some of the summit’s expected outcomes are to see increased inter-country trade partnerships, submit recommendations on the Youth Charter to the African Union, and formulate a network of young African Leaders. They also expect an increased collaboration between young people within the entrepreneurship landscape, civil society movements and creative spaces. City of Tshwane youth brand ambassador, choreographer and writer Paul Modjadji said: “The initiative is inspired by the vision of enabling African youth to connect and collaborate towards the prosperity of the continent. “As a Play Your Part Ambassador and founder of the initiative, I want to create platforms that allow African youth to collaborate and connect. Our objectives are to bring Africans together through a shared passion for music and dance,” he said, encouraging the youth to register and follow the conversation, and to play their part.