She was among a number of speakers at Madikizela-Mandela’s memorial service in Brandfort in the Free State, organised by the EFF. Madikizela-Mandela was banished to the small town in 1977 by the apartheid regime as she continued challenge the then oppressive regime. De Lille, who remains banned from political activities by the official opposition and who was going through a disciplinary process, told how she received a call from Madikizela-Mandela asking her about her battles with the DA. “The last time she phoned me was in December and she asked in that husky voice, ‘What are these boys doing to you marn? Those boys don’t know who they are dealing with,’ then she laughed and laughed. And I assured her that I have got everything under control,” De Lille said. The fiery former PAC leader has maintained that the disciplinary action and allegations of power abuse and maladministration by the DA were trumped up and were aimed at dislodging her from the helm of the city. In February, a motion of no confidence against De Lille, which was sanctioned by the DA, failed despite the party enjoying a majority in the city, after the ANC resolved to defend her from being removed. At its federal congress, the DA adopted the “De Lille clause” in a bid to expel its public representatives should they refuse to leave their posts within 48 hours after the party instructs them to step down. De Lille said Madikizela-Mandela’s fearlessness, principled political conduct and frankness taught her to speak truth to power. “We all know Mama Winnie  always spoke the truth to power and Mama Winnie’s truth did not change. She spoke truth to power to the previous regime and she spoke truth to power to the current regime because the truth never changed. That is how we know Mama Winnie - fearless. “I learnt from Mama Winnie that  politics is not for ‘sissies’. When you are in politics, there are no rules for men, and there are no rules for women. There are just rules, and she played by the rules and she played the game better than most of them when you hit her she clapped you back. “What you have today (are) passive politicians who are there for their stomachs and who are not there for the people of our country,” De Lille said. She slammed those who criticised Madikizela-Mandela’s legacy, accusing them of having kept the apartheid regime in power. “Who are they to criticise our mother? One day comrade Juju (Julius Malema), we must go and fetch that voters roll and see how they voted for apartheid.” EFF leader Julius Malema called for the return of land as a tribute to Madikizela-Mandela. “Mama wanted the land, just like the EFF. We don’t hate white people, they have naturalised. We are saying to the white people ‘share the land’." He accused the media of perpetrating the rhetoric that the expropriation of land without compensation was a targeted victimisation of white South Africans. “I am worried about how the journalists report on the land. They are not countering the rhetoric (of) a white genocide in South Africa and yet there is no case of any white person killed because we want land.”