This was one of the assertions made by Deputy President David Mabuza, who yesterday paid tribute to the late ANC leader by assuring other veterans that they wouldn't be treated with disdain for expressing their concerns over the party's weaknesses. Mabuza made the remarks during the memorial service for Skweyiya at the Tshwane Events Centre in Pretoria yesterday following hisdeath on April 11 - three days before his 76th birthday. Skweyiya was part of a group of ANC veterans who included the Reverend Frank Chikane, Mavuso Msimanga, Sheila Sisulu, and Barbara Masekela who spoke out against against ill-discipline and corruption within the ANC and wanted the party to get rid of its ills ahead of the ANC national elective conference in December last year. The group formed themselves into ANC Veterans 101 but, according to Mabuza, the then-leadership under Jacob Zuma shut the doors on them and refused to listen to their concerns. Yesterday, Mabuza recounted the efforts Skweyiya and the veterans undertook to set the ANC on a right path. “For our part, we must acknowledge where we veered off the road and did not do things right. Dr Skweyiya detested cliques and factions and was known always to stand above all such formations in the ANC. He expressed his unease with the developments in the South African government,” he said. “At the sunset of his life, with such a stand, he lamented that we, the leaders of his beloved movement, had become hostile. He despised the purging of comrades by dominant factions. And he bemoaned gatekeeping, disunity and corruption,” Mabuza added The ANC shut the door on Skweyiya and veterans when they wanted to engage on issues of concern around the ANC, he said. “As the leadership, our preoccupation with our own sense of security rendered him and other veterans invisible”. He said the ill-treatment of Skweyiya by his own party did not force him to lose hope that the ANC would renew itself. “As we mourn his passing, we wish to assure his spirit and the entirety of the veterans of the ANC that we regret some of the omissions we have committed in the service of our people. “We want to assure his spirit that the organisation he so loved and dedicated his entire adult life to is on an irreversible path of renewal as the true and honest servant of the people,” Mabuza promised. Mabuza said that as the ANC leadership they had heard and seen Skweyiya's frustrations caused by a leadership that had “become blind to the suffering of the people and became deaf to the cries of society”. As Mabuza spoke, fellow 101 veterans listened attentively as he said the ill-treatment, rejection had not changed Skweyiya’s mind about his party. “In honour of his memory, the veterans and stalwarts of the ANC should never again feel they are treated with disdain and disrespect. We will jealously guard our cohesion as a democratic state and the unity of our movement,” Mabuza said. He also remembered the role Skweyiya played in bringing together different and racially  polarised public servants after his appointment as minister of public service and administration by Nelson Mandela.