GOITSEMANG TLHABYE T-SHIRTS with the face of Dean Jafta filled courtroom 16 of the Pretoria Magistrate's Court today as community members called for bail to be revoked for the suspects arrested for his disappearance. Eersterust community members and the parents of Jafta, 21, came out in their numbers for the appearance of three men arrested in connection with his disappearance. Jafta was last seen on the Friday May 19, 2017. Desiree Fisher, member of the Concerned Parents Association of Eersterust, said the police and the National Prosecuting Authority had for 12 months been unable to give the community or parents any definite answers with regards to the progress of the case. Fisher said while the authorities remained mum on the cases, all they witnessed were criminals coming back into the community after having been granted bail without knowing why. “We don't know what is happening with these matters and it is not just one boy that went missing. The community is living in fear now,” she said. Denzil Jafta, the young man’s father said he was disappointed that two of the three men had been granted bail during their previous appearance without their knowledge or input. Jafta said: “I’m dissatisfied that they gave two of them bail on April 12, while the body of my son has not been found. To make matters worse one of the men they released is violent.” “We’re living in fear and I am worried about the safety of the rest of my children. Its difficult for us as all we want is for them to tell us exactly what happened to Dean.” Sizo Mabuza, Claude Marais and Mark Booysen appeared briefly in court, following which the state prosecutor requested a postponement for further investigations to be conducted. Mabuza and Marais remain out on bail, and the magistrate instructed Marais to refrain from interacting or making threats to the family as part of his bail conditions. This as the court was informed that he had made threats to community members and the family making their way into the courtroom. Booysen also took the opportunity to inform the court that he would not be applying for bail and the matter was subsequently postponed to June 22.