The school quiz proved so popular in Cape Town, Durban and Johannesburg that a Pretoria leg has been introduced. An invitation is issued for high schools in the city to select teams to enter in the event in August. The quiz, presented with sponsor Varsity College, culminates in a national final, with fantastic individual and school prizes. Questions in five categories -current affairs, politics, sport, business and entertainment - will be drawn from articles in the Pretoria News and on the IOL website. The National High School Quiz has its origins in Cape Town with the Cape Argus High School Quiz which this year celebrates its 10th anniversary. It also draws on the experience of Varsity College which ran popular high school quizzes in the past. It is open to all high schools in suburbs and townships across the metro, and targets pupils in Grades 9-11. Teams should be made up of four pupils, each with an educator or coach. The first rounds will take place in three regions between August 13 and 15: the South and West (Centurion); Pretoria North, and the East. Host schools will be announced in due course. The top teams from the Pretoria News quiz, The Star quiz, the Cape Argus quiz and the Daily News quiz will compete in the National High School Quiz finals at Sandton Varsity College in September. The national winner will take home the National High School Quiz title, R20000 for their school, R5000 for each team member and R5000 for the team’s coach. There are also prizes for the runners up. Pretoria News editor, Val Boje, said she was delighted that Pretoria was included this year. “We have some of the top schools in the country in our city, so I know our teams will do well,” she said. "It also encourages learners to be well informed about current events." Lyndsay de Sa, principal of Varsity College Pretoria, said she was “incredibly excited to be able to partner with the Pretoria News and host The National Schools Quiz in Pretoria". “We are looking forward to engaging with city schools in the build up to this competitive event,” she said. Schools which would like to register can go to pnquiz@inl.co.za