Traffic along the N3 from Durban toJoburg was massively delayed following protests in the morning at the Mooi River Toll Plaza, but by afternoon, the road had been reopened. In the city, Tshwane Metro Police Department officers had their work cut out and were deployed to monitor all the major routes. Since the beginning of the Easter weekend, 64 people were arrested for drunken driving in different areas in Tshwane, and 4 632 speeding notices were issued. At least 40 pedestrians were arrested and 2 843 traffic fines issued. Three stolen vehicles and another that had been hijacked were recovered. One suspect was arrested for possession of a stolen vehicle and another for domestic violence. Department spokesperson Senior Superintendent Isaac Mahamba said they used a zero tolerance approach to unlawfulness. Mahamba said preliminary reports indicated that driving at high speed or unlicensed, as well as unroadworthy vehicles, were major offences committed by motorists in the past four days. According to the Road Traffic Management Corporation, the top five offences over the weekend were 4 153 for driving at a high speed, 1 946 for driving unlicensed vehicles, 1 909 for driving without licences, 1 393 for driving without fastening seat belts and 926 for driving vehicles with worn tyres. The Transport Department said it was not in a position to speculate on the fatality numbers as the Easter weekend was not officially over. Last year, the then minister Joe Maswanganyi announced that 235 people died on South African roads over the Easter holidays, a 51% increase over the previous year’s figure of 156. Law enforcement agencies in Gauteng stated they noted with concern the growing number of road fatalities involving pedestrians during the Easter weekend. Preliminary information shows that 70% of the fatalities involved pedestrians, especially in municipal areas. Most of the fatalities were compounded by pedestrians walking the streets late at night and drinking. Drunk driving also contributed significantly to the rise in road fatalities, and 250 motorists had by yesterday been arrested in Gauteng for the offence, with the majority of perpetrators in Joburg.