Elizabeth Ramponi, 78, and Mokgadi Kekana, 96, claim they were promised homes in the development by mayor Solly Msimanga during his pre-election campaign in 2016. They told the Pretoria News that Msimanga said they would be among the first people to receive houses. But in March last year, the construction company abandoned the site, leaving it unattended. They later learnt a dispute between the provincial government and the service provider resulted in the termination of the contract. The construction workers told the elderly women they would return to complete the roofs and install windows and doors. However, that never happened. Abram Phakathi was another beneficiary whose RDP house stands incomplete. Next to his was that of neighbours who had removed their shacks to make space for an RDP house. “But all they have to show for it is just the foundation,” he said. Kekana also spoke of another elderly beneficiary who recently died before her RDP house was completed. The deceased’s grandchildren said they were still mourning and did not want to deal with the issue. They covered the incomplete RDP house with a black tarpaulin and said they expected urgent intervention from the area’s ward committee so that their grandmother could be taken to her burial from a decent looking home. Kekana said: “I have been living here since 1992 and I would like to ask the mayor to help and send people to complete my house. “It is sad to see new RDP houses being built and completed for younger people while we still wait.” Ramponi also lives in a shack behind her unfinished RDP house.  She said she was left soaking wet during the recent heavy rains. Her neighbour, Regina Chauke, whose RDP house was also incomplete, said it pained her to see Ramponi soaked to the skin by rain. “She is too old to be living under those conditions; something has to be done,” she said. Ramponi said she settled in Soshanguve in 1994 and was full of joy when she was told she would finally receive an RDP house. When construction on her home began, her shack was built in a thin rectangular shape at the back of her yard to make space for the RDP house, but it’s been more than 12 months since it was abandoned. “Right now I have an electricity meter box on the ground covered in a dish because I don’t want it to get rained on,” she said. “That is very dangerous for me. It was supposed to be put in the house when they finished building. During heavy rains I fear it will explode and hurt me.” The residents said their biggest worry was that nothing was done to complete their homes despite complaints raised at numerous community meetings. Neither MMC for housing and human settlements Mandla Nkomo, nor City spokesperson Lindela Mashigo could confirm whether the mayor made the promise as claimed by the complainants. They, however, said all new construction and completion of RDP houses was handled by the provincial government. “I will engage with my provincial counterpart to find a solution to this problem,” Nkomo said. Councillor for the area Siphiwe Montlha said the problem was worsened by a demarcation process which took place in the area just after the provincial government sacked the construction company, which was under-performing. The demarcation moved some beneficiaries to another ward, under councillor Japan Baloi instead of Montlha’s. “I will engage councillor Baloi and inform him about the situation so that we can make the new contractor aware of this problem. I will provide feedback on the solution after speaking to Baloi,” said Montlha. Word from the provincial government was that it would want to check the specifics of the area’s RDP construction to find out what had happened to the contractor and why the project stalled.