This is thanks to thousands who heeded a call by Jacaranda FM to fill up Loftus Versfeld Stadium and raise funds for the course on Saturday during the Super Rugby South African derby between Vodacom Blue Bulls and DHL Stormers. All listeners had to do was add a R20 donation when buying tickets for the game. The station said it was looking at spending about R50 000 at each school. Under Jacaranda FM’s #ProjectWaterDrop and #CC4CT (Capital City for Cape), Jacaranda said money donated by companies and individuals and raised from the game would mainly be spent on schools in desperate need of water. Station manager Kevin Fine said: “The first borehole is scheduled to be drilled on June 22 and will provide water to Ocean View School for children with special needs and Kleinberg Primary School. “They have a combined 700 pupils between them. Executive Mayor Solly Msimanga also donated R30000 before the game, won by the Bulls.” Fine acknowledged all who had made a contribution towards the project, adding that more people could still donate. “Final figures are still being tallied, but through the effort of Jacaranda FM’s listeners, including the likes of the executive mayor, Kagiso Media CEO Mark Harris, Victor Matfield, Jean de Villiers, Bakkies Botha, Kobus Wiese, Jack Parow, Dewald Wasserfall and our very own Martin Bester, we managed to raise thousands which will enable us to assist schools in need,” he said. “We also collected more than 210000 litres of water on the day at the game, which the team at DHL kindly offered to transport to Cape Town. “This is a fantastic start and we’d like to encourage individuals and companies to please continue contributing in the months to come,” Fine said. Breakfast Show host Martin Bester, who has also made an significant contribution, said they were satisfied with the turn-up. He said they managed to pull the biggest crowd the stadium had seen in a long time during a rugby game. Rapper Jack Parow, who entertained the crowd before the game, said: “It's a cool initiative because I am from Cape Town and this is close to my heart. I think a lot of people are going to benefit from the initiative.”