In fact, they said they would only move out of the houses when they were dead. The residents had gathered outside the Gauteng High Court, Pretoria, where the matter involving their eviction was being heard. The houses were built for residents of the dolomitic Mooi-
plaas informal settlement. Last week, mayor Solly Msimanga and Gauteng Premier David Makhura told residents of Mooiplaas they had reached an agreement with the occupants of the houses, and that relocation would start before the end of the year. However, Olievenhoutbosch residents leader Peter Seolela said all those who had occupied the RDP houses were the rightful owners. “The government promised people it would build 4 500 units and no one knows where the money is right now. The project started in 2013. They are failing to complete the first 
1 000 units. We believe that if the government delivered on the 4 500 houses it was supposed to build, the people of Olievenhoutbosch and Mooiplaas would all have houses, and there would be no fights. “But now they are trying to cover their own corruption by making sure the people of these communities fight among themselves.” Seolela was adamant that all the houses that were supposed to be built were going to accommodate all people from both areas who were on the beneficiaries list. He said there would have been more than 2 000 houses for new applicants. “We won’t move until they tell us where the 4 500 units are; the 
1 500 that was supposed to be built in Mooiplaas, 753 in Extension 60 and all the houses that were supposed to be built.  We will not move out of those houses as long as we are still alive,” he said. Inside the court, representatives from the Department of Human Settlements asked for a postponement of the case. Advocate Noxolo Khumalo said the application was to remove the illegal occupiers from 
Olievenhoutbosch. She said: “The RDP houses built already had beneficiaries allocated. But now these houses are illegally occupied, leaving beneficiaries who were legally allocated the houses stranded. “Initially, we had come to court to ask the sheriff to evict the illegal occupiers but we have learnt that the motion will be opposed.” Khumalo explained there was a study conducted to see how many people needed to be evicted, and it found that there were 888 units already occupied. “So we are looking to evict thousands of people who unlawfully occupied these houses.” The matter was postponed to May 23 to allow the defence to prepare their opposition to the motion. While the court case proceeded inside, residents filled inner city streets, singing and chanting, leading to motorists being redirected to use other routes as they occupied Madiba Street. The gallery was packed with residents waiting anxiously to hear their fate. Last year more than 1000 RDP houses were occupied without government permission. The Extension 27 residents were allocated houses by impatient community leaders, who challenged the City’s intention to allocate the homes to the rightful beneficiaries. The leaders said they had made the allocations because the provincial government and the City had taken longer than necessary to supply the list of rightful beneficiaries, and some of the houses were already being sold illegally and broken into.