Trump tweeted yesterday that the US will be launching missiles at targets in Syria in response to the suspected chemical attack in a rebel-held area that killed at least 40 people. Maria Zakharova, spokeswoman for the Russian Foreign Ministry, in a Facebook post later yesterday wondered if the chemical weapons watchdog investigating the reports has been warned that the missiles will destroy “all evidence” of the attack. She adds: “Or is it the original idea to use the smart missiles to sweep traces of provocation under the rug?” Both the Syrian government and Russia deny the attack ever took place. Meanwhile, Russian state news agencies were reporting that a high-level Russian delegation had arrived in Syria where it was going to meet President Bashar Al-Assad. The visit  came amid growing expectation of US retaliation against Syria for the suspected chemical weapons attack. The two state news agencies said the Russian delegation included the governor of an oil-rich Siberian region. Tass, in a news story out of the northern Syria city of Homs, quoted Russian lawmaker Dmitry Sablin as rejecting reports that Assad may have fled Syria. Sablin said Assad was in Damascus and was going to meet the Russian delegation. In another development, the UN health agency said reports from its partners indicated about 500 patients showed signs of exposure to toxic chemicals following the shelling on the town of Douma at the weekend. The World Health Organisation said patients at health facilities showed “signs of severe irritation of mucous membranes, respiratory failure and disruption to central nervous systems of those exposed”. A WHO statement yesterday didn't confirm outright that a chemical weapons attack had taken place. WHO also cited reports about the deaths of more than 70 people who sheltered in basements, saying 43 of those people who died had shown “symptoms consistent with exposure to highly toxic chemicals”. Elsewhere, a senior Russian lawmaker warned the US that Russia would view an airstrike on Syria as a war crime. State news agency RIA Novosti yesterday quoted Andrei Krasov, deputy chairman of the State Duma’s Defence Committee, as saying that Russia would treat a US airstrike on Syria “not just as an act of aggression but a war crime by the Western coalition”. Russia has been a key backer of Assad, providing air cover for his offensive against the Islamic State group and Syrian rebels. Russian military advisers are deployed at many Syrian government facilities. European airspace authorities are warning aircraft to be careful over the next days when flying close to Syria because of possible military action against Assad’s forces. The Eurocontrol airspace organisation said that the European Aviation Safety Agency (Easa) had sent a “Rapid Alert Notification” that flight operations needed to consider the possibility of air or missile strikes into Syria. US officials have consulted with global allies on a possible joint military response to the incident. In a notice, Easa said: “Due to the possible launch of airstrikes into Syria with air-to-ground and/or cruise missiles within the next 72 hours, and the possibility of intermittent disruption of radio navigation equipment, due consideration needs to be taken.”  - AP