JAMES MAHLOKWANE The Tshwane Metropolis condemned unprofessional packing of confidential job application forms on the back of a bakkie at city offices in Temba. City Spokesperson Selby Bokaba said a photograph circulated on social media on Tuesday. The image made an ‘unacceptable’ impression that the City was not capable of handling confidential documents. The City Manager of Tshwane, Dr Moeketsi Mosola called for an urgent internal investigation into the transportation of these application forms that were expected to be taken to the City’s recruitment office in the capital. The City recently advertised about 581 operational posts, including those of artisan assistants, with the view of increasing its workforce to capacity and improving service delivery. The closing date for the submission of the application forms was supposed to be April 4 but Mosola generously decided to extend the closing date until Monday, 4pm. The extension was due to the high volume of applications received and the current long queues at Bothongo Plaza. It was clear applicants were still desperate to meet the submission deadline. Mosola said: “The circulating pictures are disturbing as they give an impression that this is how we handle sensitive and confidential information of job-seekers. I have called for an urgent investigation into this matter because this is not how we conduct our business. This is an isolated incident that we are treating with the urgency it deserves and will soon report to the public on the outcome of our investigation,” Bokaba  said when the City became aware of the snaking queues at some of its regional offices and at Bothongo Plaza, extra personnel were deployed to help with the processing of the high volume of applications. The city introduced an E-recruitment system previously to avoid potential applicants from queuing at its offices but recently experienced technical glitches. Technicians were currently in the process of refining it to enable it to work optimally. Mosola prioritised the filling of administrative posts to enable personnel to respond quickly and speedily to service delivery interruptions and to complaints from irate customers.