The ANC, her political home, was together with other liberation movements, the PAC and Azapo, while hundreds of IFP supporters also turned up in white T-shirts with the face of its long-time leader Mangosuthu Buthelezi. While EFF deputy president Floyd Shivambu was present along with its MP Fana Mokoena, he did not address the memorial service. UDM leader Bantu Holomisa, a trusted friend of Nelson Mandela who provided South Africa’s first democratically elected president with bodyguards after his release from Victor Verster Prison, was also among the mourners. Several ANC leaders and members of President Cyril Ramaphosa’s executive, including deputy secretary-general Jessie Duarte, treasurer-general Paul Mashatile, who was also a programme director, Finance Minister Nhlanhla Nene, Health Minister Aaron Motsoaledi and Co-operative Governance and Traditional Affairs Minister Zweli Mkhize, Defence and Military Veterans Minister Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula, among others, attended. One of the programme directors, Communications Minister Nomvula Mokonyane, allowed EFF and IFP supporters to start their own songs in tribute to Madikizela-Mandela throughout the proceedings which lasted over five hours. A jovial and cordial mood was clear throughout the service. Duarte warned Madikizela-
Mandela’s unforgiving detractors to shut up and sit down. Madikizela-Mandela’s grandson, Bambatha Mandela, also fired a warning at archbishops and chiefs who uttered defamatory statements and were disrespectful towards the late leader. Delivering his tribute, Deputy President David Mabuza asked ANC members to learn from Madikizela-Mandela in the governing party’s fight against its troubles. Mabuza said Madikizela-Mandela fought factionalism and personality cults and understood the ANC’s challenges. With Madikizela-Mandela, the former Mpumalanga premier said, it was more about “we” than “I”. Mabuza described Madikizela-
Mandela as a rare breed, a unifier, visionary and a straight talker who would not speak behind her comrades’ back but addressed issues there and then. “She was one of those indestructible rocks. Her preoccupation was serving humanity in totality,” he said. Buthelezi, described as a friend of the Mandela family, likened Madikizela-Mandela’s death with the fall of a big tree. He said the former ANC Women’s League president was not just Mandela’s wife but a lively ambassador for justice. “I admired her tremendously from the first time I saw her,” said Buthelezi, adding that she had a lively and indomitable spirit. Buthelezi also praised Madikizela-Mandela for raising her daughters, Zenani and Zindzi, well. Despite having to do without both parents for extended periods, they rose to be experienced diplomats. In Brandfort, where Madikizela- Mandela was banished to in 1977, EFF chairperson Dali Mpofu praised Madikizela-Mandela for facilitating political tolerance even in her passing, which he said was proof that she was a revolutionary. The EFF, the ANC, DA and Azapo shared the stage as they paid tribute to Madikizela-Mandela at the Majwemasweu Stadium. “We have leaders from across the political spectrum. It shows that we are here about a revolutionary. It had to take Mama Winnie. As far as I can remember, since the formation of the EFF, this is the first time that we are sharing a stage formally with the ANC. It took comrade Winnie to achieve that,” he said. “The reason we have all these organisations here is because Mama Winnie was bigger than any organisation,” he added. Zodwa Zwane, Madikizela-Mandela’s personal assistant for over a decade, said EFF leader Julius Malema was right when he characterised her late boss as the stone that was rejected by the builder after her death on April 2. She recalled that Madikizela-
Mandela interviewed her in November 2007 but when she arrived at her office they instead spoke about her dress. “It took me about six months to tell people I was Mrs Mandela’s PA. I couldn’t believe it myself,” said Zwane, who explained that she was also speaking on behalf of kitchen staff, bodyguards, gardeners and nurses caring for Madikizela-Mandela who had become part of the family. She said the first person she told during a church service did not believe her. “We lost Mama at a time we least expected it,” Zwane said. According to Zwane, Madikizela-
Mandela had planned to visit the Zion Christian Church’s headquarters in Moria, Limpopo, two weeks before she died. She said Madikizela-Mandela had asked her to come and share the seven words Jesus Christ uttered before he was crucified the day after Good Friday. However, Zwane was unable to do so that Saturday but undertook to return on Tuesday. Unfortunately, Madikizela-Mandela died on the Monday. She will be buried on Saturday at the Fourways Memorial Park. See Page 4, 12, 13