According to Madikizela-Mandela’s Methodist Church minister, the Reverend Refilwe Thapelo Tawana, she was so disturbed by the violence she worked with the church to organise a day of prayer. There were several cases of women being kidnapped and attacked while travelling in taxis in and around Soweto last year. In one case, two friends, Qwabe and Bongeka Phungula, were kidnapped, robbed and murdered. Tawana said: “She was worried about the taxi kidnappings and said we should have a prayer service. The service was held at Dobsonville Stadium, and even though she was unwell she was defiant to illnesses and still attended the prayer service. She was so unwell the car dropped her off inside the tent where the prayer was. This shows that she cared so much about other people.” Yesterday, the Meadowlands church Madikizela-Mandela  attended since 1998 held a special morning service commemorating her life, and in the afternoon a memorial service. Several ANC supporters joined the parishioners during the memorial service. The memorial service was attended by parishioners from neighbouring churches who were dropped off in buses. Tawana spoke glowingly about Madikizela-Mandela as a parishioner. He said she was very worried about the kidnappings and killing of young women and girls in the township last year. Despite her status as a politician, Madikizela-Mandela hadn’t expected preferential treatment from the church. He described her as a “down-to-earth” person who loved hugging and kissing people. “I’m one of those she kissed,” he laughed. Tawana joined the Meadowlands Zone 7 parish last year and one of the first things he became aware of was that other congregants respected and loved Madikizela-Mandela. “They said to me ‘do you know that Mama always buys us a cow?’ She always wanted to be part of the church. Whenever she wasn’t travelling or feeling well, she’d come to church.” Madikizela-Mandela attended the nearly five-hour Good Friday service with her daughter Zindzi before she died last Monday. Tawana said: “During the service I was worried about her because she was so old and the service is so long. Her daughter kept fanning her and she sat throughout the service. It’s those little things that we’ll miss about her. “We have lost but we also celebrate a well-lived life. She believed in God and didn’t let anything come between her and her God.” The main memorial service for the fallen Struggle icon will take place on Wednesday in Soweto. She will be laid to rest on Saturday.