In the build-up to the day, a team of Metro Police officers has been working non-stop to tighten security measures ahead of the Soca. MMC for community safety Derrick Anniruth Kissoonduth said the preparations had been focusing on equipping the officers to deal with any eventualities that might occur on the day. “The metro police members will be ready to deal with any happenings. We will be ready to deal with anything that might happen,” he said. He said the Tshwane Metro Police Department had a security master plan to be implemented in partnership with SAPS officers. “I have spoken to the chief of police and I am awaiting a report on the plans. Most of our meetings are overseen by both the metro police and SAPS members.” Kissoonduth downplayed suggestions that the venue was chosen to avoid the pandemonium that erupted during last year's Soca, held at the Tshwane Events Centre. That was when a group of ANC councillors disrupted executive mayor Solly Msimanga’s maiden speech. Councillors boycotted Msimanga's speech on the grounds that it coincided with the commemoration of the hanging of anti-apartheid Struggle icon Solomon Kalushi Mahlangu in 1979. They burst into Struggle songs as Msimanga was about to deliver his speech, forcing him to angrily order the metro police to eject ANC councillors from the hall. The then-chief of police Steve Ngobeni defied his orders. Yesterday, Kissoonduth said: “The venue was chosen by the office of the City manager and the mayor with budgetary constraints in mind. The venue choice was not informed by last year's incident. It is a brand new council chamber and I think it is about time that we utilise it to the fullest.” Tiyiselani Babane, the strategic executive in the office of the Speaker, also said the choice of the venue was not informed by the intention to avoid a repeat of last year’s chaos. “It is informed by the City’s intention to be as efficient as possible in terms of hosting events at minimum costs,” he said. He, however, said issues of security had been part of discussions during plenary meetings. “The discussions are continuing and emergency personnel and metro police are engaging on them." Babane said he would have a meeting with the Deputy Metro Police Chief Jenny Malan to identify other areas of security concerns. The R2 billion new municipal headquarters - on the site of its predecessor Munitoria - will host the occasion despite lacking conference equipment such as microphones and wi-fi facilities. Babane said a sound system would be arranged to facilitate the proceedings. Council Speaker Katlego Mathebe previously said the delay of council sittings to move to Tshwane House was the result of a dispute with a service provider over the installation of conference equipment. She said the City administration was drafting specifications regarding the type of equipment needed at the council chamber. Babane said there would be no decorations and no red carpet rolled out for the VIPs in line with the City’s decision to save costs. There would, however, be musical performances by the Tshwane Metro Police choir, he said. Babane cautioned that there would be limited space to accommodate people. "If one does not have accreditation, they won't be able to (get) into the venue," he said. Mayoral spokesperson Samkelo Mgobozi, meanwhile, advised people to view the Soca live on Tshwane TV or the big screen at Burgers Park. They can also listen to a live broadcast on community radio stations, he said. Msimanga recently said the event would give him an opportunity to account to council and residents about the City’s service delivery programmes. “I will also do some hard thinking about the challenges of where we are and where we need to be. And obviously be able to account for what has been and what we are going to do to get us to where we want to be. "I will also communicate to this council and to the residents at large of the progress of where we are,” he said.