Mbeki told eNCA that Madikizela-Mandela should be remembered as one individual in the collective that had fought against apartheid. “Yes indeed recognise individuals but let's also recognise that these are not people who worked as individuals but as a collective.” Mbeki compared her with Albertina Sisulu wife of Walter Sisulu. “It was correct of the ANC to say let's mark the centenary of the birth of Albertina Sisulu. I don't think Ma Sisulu got the same media exposure as Winnie did but you can't say that she has played a lesser role.” Mbeki also said Madikizela-Mandela was wrong when she said on April 13 1986, in Munsieville: “Together hand in hand with our boxes of matches and our necklaces we shall liberate this country.” It was no secret that Mbeki and Madikezela-Mandela's relationship was strained and they shared many differences of opinion. He also said that Madikizela-Mandela disobeyed orders from the ANC leadership to disband the Mandela United Football Club. Within hours of Mbeki's televised interview, social media was filled with images and video clips of Mbeki allegedly “shoving” Madikezela-Mandela during a 2001 commemoration of the 25th anniversary of the 1976 June uprising. The clip shows Madikizela-Mandela arriving after all dignitaries and trying to greet and embrace Mbeki. Mbeki is seen angry and in the motion of moving away from her embrace; Madikizela-Mandela's hat falls to the ground. They then exchange words and it appears Mbeki is telling her something before she walks away from him towards her seat. In Tuesday's interview, Mbeki said Madikizela-Mandela “liked” arriving late at events which, he said, was deliberate so she could receive applause and draw attention. “I told her she was wrong and she knew she was wrong. In my gesturing I knocked over her hat,” he said. Twitter users commented on the video clip saying he “humiliated” her. “Unpalatable conduct by Mbeki - why prove your point in the full view of the public? And Thabo Mbeki never apologised for this despicable behaviour #We'llNeverForget,” tweeted Thabo Moetji. After his interview was broadcast, more tweets showed some South Africans did not appreciate Mbeki's words towards Madikizela-Mandela. “Thabo Mbeki is a shame. How dare he. We are mourning and he is insulting the legacy of uMama Winnie” tweeted Lazola Ndamase. @simphiwedana tweeted: “Thabo Mbeki was so hurtful. Classic misogyny. We normally don't recognise it because it is normalised in our societies” Thabo Mbeki Foundation communications head Thami Ntenteni said Mbeki spoke honestly, “alluding” to organisational discipline; not her character. “After all that was done to her, anyone will be very angry. Mbeki was alluding to her discipline. He doesn't blame her."