This follows accusations regarding the well-being of elderly residents at the old age home after a picture of a frail elderly man sleeping on the floor wearing only an adult nappy was circulated on social media. Mary Clarkeson, the woman who posted the picture on Facebook, wrote: “This is the kind of abuse that takes place at the home.” Subsequently, the home came under fire from the local community, especially from Eersterust Concerned Residents. Chairperson Curt Williams accused the home of ill-treating the elderly residents and misusing funds it received from the department. He said family members of residents complained of, among other things, that the elderly were not fed nutritious food and the manager used the home’s vehicles for personal use. They also accused the manager of keeping and controlling the residents’ social grant cards. “I had my father-in-law in this home and we have personal experience of the terrible behaviour which we can attest to,” Williams said. Last week DA spokesperson for social development Justus De Goede conducted an oversight visit to the facility. Damons claimed the picture of the naked elderly man was staged and taken by a bitter employee who was trying to tarnish his name. Damons also denied misspending money and said he had an agreement with the family members to keep and use their social grant cards. “I withdraw the monthly accommodation fee with the knowledge of family members,” he said. Asked why he did this, he replied:  “Unfortunately, this is the only way we can be sure we get paid in order to run the facility smoothly. Some family members don’t pay on time, and that makes it difficult to run operations.” He dismissed accusations that he used the vehicles for his personal use. He said one of the vehicles was in for repairs at a dealership in Silverton and the home couldn’t afford the cost of repairs. “Instead of trying to find mistakes, Eersterust Concerned Residents members should ask how they could help the home,” he said. Damons told De Goede a special audit had been conducted by the Social Development Department and he was confident the results would put the matter to rest. He accused  De Goede of trying to score political points. De Goede said: “We are only looking out for the elderly and frail in our community. We are not trying to score political points; we are doing our job.” They would study the audit results.