Accurate weather predictions are important for planning day-to-day activities. Farmers need information to help them plan for the planting and harvesting of their crops; event organisers need to plan for venues - to be indoors or outdoors; and people need to know what to wear. Yesterday, the South African Weather Service and National Meteorology Institute of South Africa signed a memorandum of understanding to work together to promote the importance of having accurate measurement traceability. Measurement traceability is a method of ensuring that a measurement took into account all uncertainties, and was an accurate representation of an object being measured. The basis of this method is that a measurement should be tested against a higher calibration reference standard. According to the agreement, the Meteorology Institute will advise and work together with the Weather Service in various fields of research, such as securing resources for research projects to improve the National Measurement Standards; traceability issues with regards to gases; bursary opportunities to students in the applicable fields of joint research; and, project agreements for research and consulting projects, with details of scope, deliverables and costs. Weather Service chief executive, Jerry Lengoasa, said their science was meteorology, based on measurement made through instruments. But the accuracy of those instruments was required to be of international standard. “We also share with other countries around the world who measure the same thing in the same way, so in the end the product is as accurate as possible.” He said the signing of the agreement was  important in affirming that their own measurements in South Africa would be measurable and also comparable to international standards. Echoing his sentiments was chief executive of National Meteorology Ndwakhulu Mukhufhi, who said the agreement was intended to strengthen scientific and technical bases by developing reference materials for the World Meteorological Organisation and the Global Atmospheric Watch Programme at Cape Point. These reference materials will be developed for volatile organic compounds, aerosol, greenhouse gases, reactive gases for air quality, and both organisations will conduct co-operative scientific research related to the above-mentioned gases. It also seeks to strengthen flow, pressure, temperature, wind, radiation and photometry calibration capabilities and technical bases for development of halocarbons gases, perfluorocarbons gases for air quality. He said the Meteorology Institute was responsible for maintaining the International System of Units and to maintain and develop primary scientific standards of physical quantities for SA and compare those standards with other national standards to ensure global measurement equivalence. “If you have to rely on the weather prediction you’ve got to rely on the source of the prediction, because the prediction comes at the end after a lot of work is done, that is were the Meteorology Institute comes in,” he said.