Education MEC Panyaza Lesufi has promised parents that thanks to a new partnership with Vodacom, parents will not face problems when they apply for admission for the 2019 academic year. Lesufi said the department had upgraded the technology and the online application system could now serve 35 000 users per second. This will be an improvement to when the system was first launched three years ago and it crashed because of high user volume. At a briefing in Joburg yesterday Lesufi said: “We have modernised the system and it should not take a parent more than five minutes. The online system has been refined to improve user experience. “One of the key refinements is to include self-help tools, such as  step-by-step guide tutorials. In addition, we have automated the query management system to curtail the turn-around time between lodging a query and receiving a response.” For the first time, parents will be able to apply to schools in five categories. They can apply for a school in their residential area; where they work;  where the siblings go to school; a school of specialisation; or a school the child attended 
previously. Earlier, parents could only apply to three categories of schools. This, Lesufi said, would give parents more options on finding a suitable school. Parents can apply from Monday until May 28. Pupils will be placed in schools from July 18. Lesufi has discouraged parents from applying late, because space in Gauteng schools are highly sought after. Vodacom said the three-year collaborative effort would see the network operator giving the department cloud hosting services that include 10 Virtual Machines and dedicated firewalls that come with management back-up storage services for the digital online application platform system. Mickey Mashale, chief sales officer for Vodacom’s Enterprise Business Unit, said: “Our partnership with the department is an extension of our support for educational teacher training centres. Our facilities will also be fully maximised to support the department's online applications for (next) year.” Lesufi said parents could apply for Grades 1 and 8 for next year, but parents with children with special needs couldn't use the system to apply. “The system does not include children with special needs You must go to the school and apply personally, because there are medical records that are needed. To apply at special schools, many things are needed; children have to be interviewed and so it is more complicated,” he said. Lesufi also warned that foreign children should not be stopped from applying to schools whether they have documentation or not. “There must be no learner turned back because they have no IDs or are foreign learners,” Lesufi said, adding that the department, through diplomatic channels, will work with the different countries to document the pupils. Those who didn't have access to computers and internet can go to their nearest libraries and district offices for help. To apply, parents can visit www.gdeadmissions.gov.za