It was a mad harvest of medals as the team produced possibly their most successful day in Games history with four gold, three silver and two bronze medals. South Africa has won a total of 18 medals at these Games, which include eight golds, to launch them into fifth place on the medals table. The medal rush happened within an hour, starting with Cameron van der Burgh’s 50m breaststroke gold and finishing with Akani Simbine and Henricho Bruintjies claiming a one-two in the 100m on the track. As South Africa’s best performance in the pool drew to a close, the track and field athletes made a storming start to their campaign. National 100m record-holder Simbine made history becoming the country’s first 100m champion at the Commonwealth Games, with Bruintjies finishing second to give South Africa a superb gold-silver haul. The team won a total of nine medals yesterday alone with the swimmers and the athletes contributing four each, with bowls quartet Elma Davis Esme Kruger Nicolene Neal and Johanna Snyman. The day ultimately belonged to the swimmers as they wrapped up the penultimate day in the pool in style with three gold medals and a silver one. Chad le Clos became the most decorated swimmer of all time by sweeping the butterfly events. He added the 100m butterfly gold to the 50m and 100m he had won earlier. He has won a total of four medals at the Games, including the 100m freestyle silver to take his total haul over three Games to 16. Van der Burgh once again displayed his incredible longevity as he won his third 50m breaststroke gold medal in as many Games by beating world record-holder Adam Peaty of England to the wall. Newly-crowned queen of the pool Tatjana Schoenmaker would leave her maiden Games with the 100-200m breaststroke golden double. She won the 100m breaststroke gold medal yesterday, breaking Penny Heyns’s continental record from 1999 in the process. The para-athletes got in on the action with swimmer Christian Sadie winning silver in the S7 50m freestyle, while Dyan Buis won silver T38 100m and Charl du Toit bronze in the T37 100m on the track. See Sport