This comes after complaints by residents, particularly two elderly women, Elizabeth Ramponi and Mokgadi Kekana, who  had been waiting for RDP houses since the 1990s. When they were finally allocated houses when construction began two years ago, their dreams were shattered when workers abandoned work last month before they were complete. The women told the Pretoria News of being heavily rained on from within their tiny shacks during the storms two weeks ago, which caused floods in the city and left roads and infrastructure damaged. They were among the first beneficiaries because of their ages of 78 and 96 and the fact that they had lived in Soshanguve since it was predominantly bush. However, they have waited in anguish and lived in small shacks after making space for the construction of these houses in their yards. Skhosana said: “By June no RDP house will remain incomplete in the area. The contractor is busy completing all those houses left as high walls last year. Our people can rest assured they will finally move into their RDP houses this year. “The people building these RDP houses are themselves residents of this area, who were recruited by the contractor. They are dedicated to completing these houses. In the past there were problems with regard to subcontractors being used to build the houses. We then complained to the provincial government and it was decided that the contractor would build the houses without the subcontractors.” On March 23, when emergency services personnel moved some informal settlement residents to safer areas on high ground to avoid floods, Ramponi and Kekana were left vulnerable to the weather. That motivated them to seek assistance to address the challenge. One of their neighbours, also elderly and who had lived in a shack for decades, recently died before her RDP house was complete. Last week her house was covered with tarpaulin as friends and relatives visited to mourn with the family. Ramponi and Kekana said they depended on pensions and could not afford to complete the houses on their own. If they could they would have done so a long time ago, they said. At the moment they would be happy to finally live in houses built with bricks after living in shacks for most of their lives. Skhosana said it was subcontractors who caused challenges in the project. She said a delay in renewing the contract of the contractor also slowed down the project. However, work is under way to complete every RDP house.