ZELDA VENTER
zelda.venter@inl.co.za INTERCAPE mainliner bus service hastened to the Gauteng High Court, Pretoria to obtain an extremely urgent interdict against unions and others who were mobilising at the Bosman Street train station on Tuesday in a bid to intimidate this bus services and its commuters in the wake of the nationwide bus strike. Judge Vivian Thlapi was at the start of the proceedings told by counsel acting for Intercape that the situation at Bosman Street station had the potential to become volatile at any moment if the court did not step in and issue the urgent interdict. The judge was told that strikers intimidated commuters on Tuesday at Park Station in Johannesburg, where they also threatened violence against the employees and the commuters who were using this bus service. Things became increasingly tense overnight, the judge was told, as the strikers moved from Park Station to Bosman Street station. By yesterday (Wednesday) morning there were reports of strikers which had already gathered at the station. The bus strike over wage increases started last week, but Intercape said they are not part of this as they have already negotiated a salary increase for their employees, which was accepted. Jan Augustyn, a manager at Intercape, said in papers before court that they have no choice but to turn to court to safeguard their passengers, workers and property. He said history had proved over the years that during national bus strikes Intercape and its passengers were subjected to acts of extreme violence and intimidation by striking workers. Strikers, among others, in the past shot on an Intercape coach during which a passenger and her child were nearly killed.  A petrol bomb was in 2015 also thrown at the house of one of the bus drivers. Augustyn said the problem was that the striking unions were extremely displeased that Intercape continued with its operations during this time. He said he was told by some of the strikers that they “were waiting for us on the road”  if Intercape continued to operate. Management was also told that they would have “blood on their hands” if there was an attack on their coaches. There were even threats that coaches would be stoned and torched and that their drivers would be shot. Augustyn said on Tuesday evening there were large scale intimidation and threats uttered against Intercape commuters and workers at Park Station. One passenger was so traumatised by the treats that she wanted Intercape to offload her baggage and she refused to use the service as she felt unsafe. The strikers meanwhile shouted that if the bus left the station, they would follow it in taxis, they would shoot at the coach and burn the bus. The strikers also violently jerked passengers from the coaches as they were embarking the bus. Augustyn said the strikers were wearing NUMSA and SAWAWU regalia. “The situation was extremely volatile….They shouted that if we were going to operate the buses, they were going to kill the managing director.” Augustyn said as the group now moved to Pretoria, he feared that if something was not done, the violence would continue here. Judge Tlhapi meanwhile interdicted all striking unions and its members from conducting any acts of violence against Intercape commuters and workers. The sheriff of the court yesterday served this order on striking unions and members at the Bosman Street station. Armed with this order, Intercape can now also call in the help of the police to arrest anyone who contravened it.