It is this conduct, behaviour and attitude that led to her “murder and death” while she was alive; that is, the deliberate suppression and marginalisation of her voice. Mama Winnie, as she was fondly called, boldly declared through her life example that she would rather live for the rest of her life in Soweto among the poor than as a black bourgeoisie in the suburbs. Thus her life was a lesson that to be a committed black radical is dangerous in a supremacist, patriarchal, capitalist economic system. It is a political posture that is so threatening that rejection, isolation, banishment and death are the punishment. It is frightening to think that women who are wearing doeks to pledge allegiance to her legacy through a declaration, “I am Winnie Madikizela-Mandela”, may be part of a campaign to dilute and whitewash her image. Of course, Madikizela-Mandela has emerged as a popular political personality now that she is dead. Almost everyone in the country is fixated by her image as a fearless anti-apartheid freedom fighter. But we should caution against this superficial over-celebration and declaration. We need to look at the myriad ways - including wearing of expensive weaves and imported designer labels - that many women go through to reject the genuine African image that Madikizela-Mandela portrayed. Unlike their newfound heroine, these women support the capitalist clothing boutiques. One does not need to provide details about the ways that black people, including women, have embraced and integrated an unjust and unequal economic system that Mama Winnie fought against. The obvious point that needs to be reiterated is that black people in general, including high-flying men and women, have seized the past 25 years to become part of the system that Madikizela-Mandela challenged and opposed. Most don’t realise that by choosing to stay, live, die and possibly be buried in Soweto, Madikizela-Mandela testified that no leader can be intuitively connected to the community or deliver freedom when they don’t live among the people. Madikizela-Mandela attempted to define and show what radical black feminist commitment is by talking in a certain way, wearing certain clothes and choosing a life of internal exile rather than being an out-of-touch rich bourgeoisie. It is ironic that many men and women who have abandoned Soweto or the townships to be part of the unjust economic system see themselves as radical and progressive, at the same time. Few will deny that the celebration is a ritualistic manifestation of how a black critical-thinking faculty of the black bourgeoisie has been blunted by the economic system. Unmistakably, the black collective psyche has, to a large extent, been reshaped and influenced by the impact of three centuries of colonialism and apartheid. It is now a way of life to carry on with talking, walking, eating, drinking, driving and dreaming of moving into the suburbs, to be part of the system, and leave the masses in the township to their own fate. Another frightening aspect of this manifestation is the extent to which the co-option of black people into an unjust system is so intense that any reflection or understanding of the meaning of Madikizela-Mandela will be diluted and distorted. Most folks today are in denial or do not want to openly admit that Madikizela-Mandela evoked fear and loathing in the minds of those who benefit from the prevalent injustice. One of the quickest things learnt following the unbanning of the liberation movement, the return of exiles and the release of Rivonia Trial accused, including Nelson Mandela, was to demonstrate a positive attitude to reconciliation and preservation of the economic system. If truth be told, being a Madikizela-Mandela is rarely a political stance that is promoted or appreciated in everyday South Africa. In fact, anyone who resembles or emulates her will be deemed suspect, dangerous and threatening. The characterisation of the radical resistance and opposition that Madikizela-Mandela possessed should be the only criterion to determine genuine commitment to freedom. Her struggle was uncompromising in the fight against land dispossession and economic deprivation. But today what seems difficult to understand for many liberals and progressives is that in a context where inequality and dispossession remain intact, it is easy for people to dismiss freedom as a myth. It is an open secret that freedom was  achieved without any significant changes to the status quo. But in her lifetime,  Madikizela-Mandela suffered disillusionment when Mandela started “working within the system” and helped preserve white control of the economy. To her this was confirmation that it was easy to succumb to the lure of what the economic system had to offer at the expense of the genuine aspirations and hopes of the people. For her, freedom required the return of the land to its indigenous owners or redistribution for all to enjoy the benefits of the mineral rights. Over the past three decades we saw how Mandela and former president Thabo Mbeki, among others, were often reluctant and unable to remain as dedicated as Madikizela-Mandela. It is ironic that black progressives and leaders identify with and protect self-interest in an unjust economic system. Largely, it is material comfort, position and rank in society that now determine perspective and relationship with the disadvantaged. Many progressives saw and condemned Madikizela-Mandela as “reckless” and a wanton “charlatan”. This fed off the supremacist narrative that saw her as the bogey-woman after apartheid leaders and supporters embraced Mandela as the new messiah. The paucity of uncompromising black radicals who will not backtrack on authentic African nationalism and demands is reinforced by the tendency to talk tough but with little action on land redistribution and economic injustice. Seemingly, there are far too few black activists who do not get involved in the Struggle today for self-benefit and to access state resources. Politics pays just like business. With hindsight it is now an open secret that Madikizela-Mandela was an insurgent intellectual and activist who  consistently refused to live according to the system’s values. By her choice to stay in Soweto, for example, she wanted to define and reflect a profound rootedness of what it  meant to be with the people. She called upon all  citizens, including whites, to be active citizens who stand up for what is right - equality and justice. Madikizela-Mandela boldly stated her case and made choices that made many uncomfortable and afflicted. Interestingly, most of her peers and comrades do believe that working within the capitalist system is the best option and people can acquire “a better life for all” if they work hard and give the government a chance. The view is growing that South Africa, with a big enough black bourgeoisie that is co-opted into the system, will be moving in the right direction. But it never dawns on these progressives that what is wrong with South Africa is not the voice of Madikizela-Mandela, but the inequality inherent in the capitalist system. However, it is naive for anyone to think that Madikizela-Mandela or any organisation could defeat a socio-economic system that now determines the thoughts, behaviour and attitudes of society. What Madikizela-Mandela understood was that white supremacy and economic injustice must be challenged and opposed daily even if it could not immediately be defeated or, at least, radically transformed. For South Africans to live in harmony and prosperity - without being killed for plasma TV screens and cellphones every night - there must be economic equality and justice for all. Not surprisingly, many of the Struggle stalwart’s colleagues and comrades were disturbed by this radical approach. At first it can appear to be a direct threat to white economic domination and control. But now there are blacks, however few, who identify with and consider the prevailing economic system alive with possibilities for people who are willing to play by its rules. No doubt over the past six decades Madikizela-Mandela wanted to critically awaken and reignite defiant, fearless and self-determining African nationalism. She called a spade a spade: this land belongs to the indigenous people and they deserve a fair share in ownership and enjoyment of its wealth. However, it remains dangerous for anyone to be blatantly radical, as this attitude is condemned for posing danger and a threat to the status quo. In fact, it has become taboo for anyone to interrogate the prevalent injustice and inequality that has become a way of life. Even politicians are overcautious about speaking about radical economic transformation or the return of land. What this means is that Madikizela-Mandela’s radical political wisdom, insight and commitment have no place today. Over-celebrating her now that she is dead, after being rejected, banished and murdered while alive, will divest her (of her) radical image and co-opt her to the conventional way of thinking. It will be interesting to see what will be done to memorialise her legacy at her 100th birthday in 2036. Sandile Memela, a public servant, is a writer and commentator.