The source of their headaches is the more than 30 heavy duty trucks delivering grain to businesses in the area, which block their entrances for days. The business owners are frustrated with the constant disturbance, worsened by the refusal of the truck drivers to move when asked to do so. There is barely a decent road, and the pavements were destroyed by the trucks. Some tenants said they were considering moving away from the business area because of the level of crime and behaviour of the truckers. “Electric poles are always knocked down, delaying production in some of our workshops and forcing us to invest in generators,” one business owner said. Yesterday was grain delivery day and several truck drivers were sitting on the pavement or in their vehicles, waiting for their turn. They refused to comment on the situation. Another businessman and tenant who asked not to be named said he hated the ongoing harvesting season as it was usually chaotic, costing his business. He said the drivers parked in their driveway for about three days. “Imagine being prevented from entering your own business early in the morning; it costs me business because instead of maybe taking two deliveries I do just one. I have been here for about eight years. I constantly get calls from my customers saying they are not looking forward to coming here at this time.” The caretaker of Patterson’s Place, Louis Peens, said in his 16 years there, this time had by far been the worst. “All these trucks come and park here during the night from all over the world; there is no place even for a rat to go through. “This problem starts at 6am when all these businesses are beginning their daily work and the real problem starts when their own delivery trucks can’t go in because they blocked all the entrances,” he said. For as long as he could remember they had been experiencing problems with the trucks, he said. Property owner William Patterson said he was devastated to hear some of his tenants were threatening to leave. “This matter is getting serious because my tenants are getting robbed; they can’t stand the smell of urine and their pavements are constantly being destroyed.” Peens said all they wanted was for the situation to be managed properly.