The DA and civil lobby group Organisation Undoing Tax Abuse (Outa) are enraged following a public hearing in Mamelodi where it emerged motorists could be punished by having their licences suspended when amendments to the Administration Adjunction of Road Traffic Offences (Aarto) Act are enacted. The draft Aarto Bill was passed by the National Assembly in September last year, and is with the National Council of Provinces (NCOP), where public hearings are being held. This comes as Premier David Makhura’s office confirmed yesterday that President Cyril Ramaphosa had agreed to put in place measures to resolve the e-tolls impasse. Makhura had said e-tolls had “not worked” in the province. Rudie Heyneke, Outa’s portfolio manager for transport, said it emerged at the public hearing that ignoring signs at e-toll gantries urging motorists to settle their debts could be an infringement akin to disobeying road traffic signs under Aarto regulations gazetted in 2008. This, Heyneke said, was according to an answer to him from Road Traffic Infringement Agency’s chief operations officer Thato Tsholetsane. Section 58 (1) of the 2008 regulations stipulates that disobeying road signs would result in a demerit point against a motorist and R500 fine, where 12 demerit points could lead to a year’s driver’s licence 
suspension. “Imagine driving from Pretoria to Joburg and you pass five gantries on a return trip, which is already 10 demerit points. So, if you drive that road twice in one week, your licence could be suspended (for a year),” an irate Heyneke said. The agency’s spokesperson, Monde Mkalipi, said:“The matters that relate to the e-tolls are still under discussion. So it is not a concluded thing to say that if you pass under a gantry you will incur a demerit point,” he said.. He added that three more provinces still had to hold public consultations before the bill is debated, and possibly adopted, in the NCOP. The South African National Roads Agency Limited’s 2017 financial statements reflected a R3.6 billion impairment in e-toll fees, caused largely by a paltry 29% in compliance from the estimated 1.2 million motorists in Gauteng. Sanral spokesperson Vusi Mona charged that Outa was fuelling civil disobedience among motorists. “Road users follow Outa’s advice at their peril. The infrastructure provided and maintained by Sanral services the people of South Africa.” But Heyneke said Outa expected the test case to gauge the lawfulness of e-tolls to be heard this year to prove what he felt was the illegality of the system. Fred Nel, the DA’s provincial spokesperson on roads, urged Makhura and Ramaphosa to give motorists “a final answer on what will happen about
e-tolls”. Makhura’s spokesperson Phumla Sekhonyane confirmed that a meeting took place with the president last week, where a plan to resolve e-tolls had been put in place. She could not reveal details yet.