Cosatu national spokesperson Sizwe Pamla said while many ANC leaders wanted praise for being incarcerated or going into exile during the fight against apartheid oppression, Madikizela-Mandela led and sustained the battle for liberation in the country. “We mourn the death of Mama Winnie. If there is one thing we all agree on in this country is that we are all indebted to her. This is the person, who when everyone had been chased out of the country, when all our political parties were going into exile and when the leadership of this country was fighting for liberation, she kept the fires burning and kept the people of South Africa mobilised. She kept the international community aware of the atrocities of apartheid and she never wavered,” Pamla said. Pamla said Madikizela-Mandela earned the respect of the working class by continuing to be loyal to the cause for their upliftment and through being the voice of reason for justice when many leaders were abandoning the struggle after 1994. “Long after the democratic breakthrough has happened, she never ever sold out while some of our leaders got co-opted by the system. She was the revolutionary to the end and defied the system of capitalism that continued to exploit the people of South Africa. “She is the voice that spoke out against the massacre in Marikana and until her last days. She kept urging the ANC to remember what the Struggle was about. She was that voice of consciousness when everybody was starting to be sophisticated about how the post-apartheid South African economy looks like and how it was supposed to be managed,” he said, adding  Madikizela-Mandela “reminded us the Struggle was not about democracy alone, but was also about changing the lives of the majority,” Pamla said. Madikizela- Mandela did not leave her Soweto township home after the dawn of democracy when most leaders bought properties and moved to affluent suburban areas after ascending  positions in the state. SACP national spokesperson Alex Mashilo said Madikizela-Mandela’s passing had dealt a huge blow to the institutional memory of liberation movement as she was one of the few senior stalwarts that were left. “This is a worrying departure as it leaves South Africa poorer without her because we are now losing the institutional memory of our history, our Struggle and the story of how we arrived where we are as a country,” Mashilo said. He added the alliance had to start a programme of documenting its liberation Struggle memory through the stalwarts who were still left.