Currently under way, it runs until May 13, and during lively evening shows under the experienced eye of artistic director, Aubrey Sekhabi, fans can enjoy an imaginative reconstruction of a story of journalists who set up a house together and advertised for another housemate to come and live with them. Despite the apartheid legislation of those days, they managed to obtain permission for a white Jewish woman to move in. This character was Ruth Golden (from Yeoville), who turned up with a suitcase on the Sophiatown doorstep of an explosive journalist, Jakes. The challenge was integration. The play is interspersed throughout with a capella harmony and original songs from the period about Sophiatown, or Kofifi as it was fondly known. It features a stellar cast. These include Thabiso Tshabalala as Jakes, Caitlin Clerk as Ruth, Terrence Ignacious Ngwila as Mingus, Kenneth Mlambo as Fahfee, Simphiwe Ndlovu as Princess, Madge Kola as Mamariti, Zamah Ngubane as Lulu, and Bongani Masango as Charlie. The theatre will also be the only theatre showing Sophiatown for school setworks this year, which can be booked during weekday matinees. The revived version was staged last year at the same time at the Market Theatre, directed by Malcom Purkey who was Sekhabi’s lecturer. Purkey was amazed by Sekhabi’s version of the play when he attended the performance. “I have been directing this play for so many years and watched many versions, and I have never seen anything like this. I am too old, I don’t have to do this production anymore; it is in beautiful and better hands,” said Purkey. Sekhabi is known for his directing works such as Kalushi, Rivonia Trial, Silent Voices, Marikana - The Musical, and the new Freedom musical, to name just a few. His productions have been nominated more than 60 times and he has won numerous awards. Despite the violence and poverty, Sophiatown was a legendary cultural hub and the epicentre of politics, jazz and blues. It symbolised a society that allowed a freedom of action, association and expression, where people lived together in harmony, undivided by race or colour. The very existence of Sophiatown as a “mixed” suburb was in direct contradiction to the apartheid policy of geographically separating people according to their colour. Its heyday finally ended when the authorities deliberately tore the area apart. This vibrant community produced some of the country’s most famous musicians, artists, writers, journalists and politicians as urban African culture formed during the repressive 1940s and 1950s. Tickets can be purchased at Computicket for R110 and R100 for students.