The AFU yesterday descended on the embattled Guptas’ luxurious Saxonwold home armed with a restraint order to seize the family’s multimillion-rand assets. The seizure relates to the case of fraud, theft and money laundering that allegedly occurred at the Vrede Dairy Project in the Free State in which the Gupta brothers are believed to have looted, using their connections within government. AFU, police and officials from the SA Revenue Service raided the Guptas’ compound to identify and record some of the items to be seized. These assets belong to some of their entities such as Oakbay Investments and Sahara Computers all valued at R250 202 652. The Guptas could forfeit these pending the finalisation of the case. “Upon conviction, the AFU will apply for a confiscation order for the recovery of the said amount and/or any related amounts,” said Luvuyo Mfaku, spokesperson for the National Prosecuting Authority. Moves to attach the Gupta properties got into full swing on Friday when the family’s private jet valued at $60.5 million (R731m), which is at the centre of a legal dispute, was returned to Lanseria Airport from Dubai. Independent Media has learnt that some of the millions siphoned from the crippling Estina Dairy Farm project could have been used by other foreign nationals linked to the Guptas to set up private businesses and to buy properties in and around Vrede. Chandrama Prasad, an Indian national hired by the Guptas to manage the project in 2013, is said to have colluded with Shahid Muhammad to set up at least three businesses and several properties in Vrede in the Free State. All these entities are registered under Muhammad’s South African wife Nelisiwe Sani-Muhammad. Muhammad is a Pakistan national and businessman in the area. Sani-Muhammad is listed as the director of the three companies but she owns no shares and has contributed no capital to start any of them, according to company search. The businesses include a bakery and vegetable shop. She also has 20 properties in her name. An associate who worked on the plant, a small businessman employed on the farm as a part-time electrician, business adviser and middleman to Prasad and Muhammad, exclusively told The Star, sister newspaper of the Pretoria News, that money, equipment and products from the project were passed down to private businesses mainly ran by Muhammad. “This guy (Muhammad) would sometimes bring his bakkie and truck to the farm to fill them with the diesel meant for the project. “He also pocketed more than R400000 in fake invoices he submitted to the project. I know these things because I was there helping them buy some of the things they wanted and I would sometimes give them business advice,” said the plant worker, who feared being named. He added that Prasad also sold milk meant for contracted companies to the locals. The Hawks interviewed the plant worker a few weeks ago following their arrest of eight individuals in February for the alleged theft from the R220m government-sponsored project. The suspects included Estina director Kamal Vasram, who was granted R100000 bail by the Bloemfontein Regional Court along with fellow accused. They are charged with 12 counts of fraud and theft. They are expected back in court in August. Hawks spokesperson Brigadier Hangwani Mulaudzi said the worker’s claims will be tested. “There is a second phase of the investigation continuing but I can’t divulge much. We will look at some of these allegations by the gentleman if they don’t already form part of our investigation,” said Mulaudzi. Muhammad dismissed all allegations against him, claiming he started his businesses in 2005, before the dairy farm came into existence. “I know Prasad well but I never worked with him. I know nothing about the plant and I never benefited from it,” he said. Asked why all his businesses were in his wife’s name, Muhammad said it was an agreement between them as they have been in business together for many years. The Free State Agriculture Department had entered into partnership with Estina, a private company, in 2012  to help about 80 emerging dairy farmers in and around Vrede. They would have a 51% stake in the project while Estina would keep the remaining 49%. The department poured more than R200m into the venture without following proper procedures, according to the damning report issued by the Public Protector’s office.