Mabuza said yesterday that they had noted concerns from opposition parties that ministers were not always in Parliament to answer questions. Opposition parties have over the years been complaining that ministers fail to show up in the House to answer crucial questions on the state of their portfolios. But Mabuza said they have now developed a roster. In addition, three cabinet ministers will be appointed to ensure they monitor the attendance of sessions. Mabuza said it was important that ministers were held accountable by the national legislature. As leader of government business, he will ensure that cabinet ministers adhere to this and attend sessions to answer questions. He said they had taken practical measures to deal with the issue of non-attendance by members of the executive. They have introduced a roster that will ensure ministers attend the House. Three other ministers will be appointed to monitor the attendance of their colleagues. “It is expected that there will be greater improvement in the future,” said Mabuza. DA chief whip John Steenhuisen said his party welcomed the intervention by Mabuza to improve attendance. Home Affairs Minister Malusi Gigaba recently faced accusations by opposition parties of skipping Parliament to avoid answering questions on the Guptas. Gigaba had indicated two months ago that he would be present in the House to answer questions on the naturalisation of the Guptas. But later in the day he was not present in the Chamber, and Speaker Baleka Mbete said she was informed by his office that he had gone to a doctor. Opposition parties raised concerns about this and demanded more answers. This led Mbete to write to Mabuza to complain about the matter. Mabuza told the House yesterday that the life of ministers was difficult, but the roster would help them ensure they were present when needed in Parliament. When President Cyril Ramaphosa was still the deputy president, opposition parties often raised concern about the absence of ministers in the House. In some instances, even deputy ministers would not show up to stand in for the ministers. Mabuza said despite the busy schedule of ministers, they wanted to ensure that Parliament was prioritised. Members of the executive are expected to account to both houses of Parliament, the National Assembly and National Council of Provinces, on a regular basis.