In the Argus South African Newspapers group, to which he gave the best years of his life, he was an enterprising reporter with a popular readership. He became editor of the Argus Africa News Service and in 1982, after serving as assistant editor of the Johannesburg Star, he was appointed editor of another of the Group’s leading newspapers, the  Pretoria News, at a time when South Africa was moving swiftly towards the tumultuous years of its transition from a white-led government towards freedom under the black majority rule. Wilfred Harcon Nussey was born in Johannesburg on December 16, 1931. From his early teens he nursed two ambitions - to become a journalist and travel the world. He merged both objectives to become a foreign correspondent of unusual ability. His career, most of it dynamically self-motivated, began as a cub reporter on the Pretoria News in 1950. Sensing a slow process of promotion he applied successfully for a job on the East African Standard in Kenya where the Mau Mau rebellion beckoned as an exciting story. For Wilf Nussey this was more like it. His chronic restlessness was soothed by the mere magic of Nairobi and its famous “White Mischief” lifestyle, its social scene stimulated by the passing through
of major hunters and celebrities such as Ernest Hemingway, Robert Ruark, Frank Sinatra, William Holden, Ava Gardner and Clint Eastwood. Riveting, too, was the romance of the country’s stunning beauty in the mountains and plains surrounding such exotic centres as Naivasha, the Kenya Highlands, Eldoret, and the mystery coastal regions north and south of Mombasa. Nussey gave of his journalistic best to the East African Standard, feasting on Kenya’s diverse societies and colourful wildlife in his news coverage and features - ending up with flights with the RAF, bombing and strafing of supposed Mau Mau hideouts in the bamboo forests of the Aberdare mountains. “Talk about wasted effort,” he confided to a colleague later. In truth the Mau Mau war was waning. Wilf Nussey himself had become an event. The lanky 1.88m venturesome South African, Ray-Bans on nose-tip and the ever-ready Leica on a shoulder strap, appealed to Nairobi’s social set where attractions were fuelled by fast chemistry. There Wilf married his charming wife Doreen on March 11, 1955. They moved to London where Wilf trod Fleet Street without success. So leaving Doreen in a safe US Information Service job for three months he went to Canada to seek new adventure. He joined the Winnipeg Tribune to become a top reporter within two years with a bright future in view. But Doreen’s mother in Cape Town became seriously ill and the couple returned to South Africa. He joined the Cape Argus where he created a niche, causing upset at times by constantly demanding assignments of his own choosing. He ranged the length and breadth of the Cape Province for exclusive and colourful copy. He also focused on South West Africa (then a trust territory administrated by South Africa, now independent Namibia), writing despatches that riled the apartheid government, causing foreign minister Eric Louw to launch into a rant in Parliament at the Argus, especially Nussey. “It gave me fame of a sort, but it wasn’t pleasant” Nussey  recalled.  “And it upset Auntie Argus.” The tirade indeed rattled the Cape Argus, which in those days, while critical of government policies, was in style a conservative publication which did not like to be shouted at.  It may have been the reason why Nussey was invited to move to the Argus Africa News Service (AANS), an entity which probed all Africa and served the Argus newspaper group as a whole. As a former Group editor commented: “Nussey was a brilliant reporter and feature writer, but a bit of a wildcard and sometimes difficult to handle. Handing him over to the News Service was like releasing him back to the wild.” Whatever the reasons, the transfer catapulted Nussey to the peak of his career. He soon became editor of the AANS and turned it around. He took over the position timeously, because until his arrival the News Service had begun to experience difficulties. It had been created by South Africa’s leading newspaper group to serve its newspapers in major South African cities, including the Cape Argus, Johannesburg Star and Natal Daily News, to keep readers informed about the dramatic changes in black Africa, where colonies were rapidly emerging as new independent states. But as quickly as the new nations raised their flags, they declared their hatred of apartheid and many visitors from South Africa were banned entry - especially South African journalists, including Nussey himself. He reacted swiftly by boosting bureaus in Harare, Windhoek, Accra, Nairobi and Lusaka  and staffing them with non-South Africans, mainly Australians, New Zealanders and Britons. Not everyone hired in haste was a professional. The new mix of correspondents and contacts included a couple of ex-mercenaries, a French Foreign Legion deserter, a laundryman in Lubumbashi (in the now DRC) and an ex-World War II paratrooper with a fierce reputation. But the operating regime prescribed by Nussey for everyone was merciless: “You will be working in sensitive territory. We want total accuracy. Make one error and you’re fired.”  Several were indeed fired and replaced. The cost of all this caused the Argus Group management to flinch but they conceded that the result was worth the expense. The AANS revived to acquire a worldwide reputation for its unusual and exclusive newsbreaks and, especially, a deep respect for its integrity. Nussey personally focused on penetration of the anti-apartheid curtain. The combination of his own determined diplomacy and the hard-won integrity of the Argus Africa News Service achieved surprising successes. Among black African leaders he reached and interviewed were King Moshoeshoe and Premier Leabua Jonathan of Lesotho,  President Julius Nyerere of Tanzania, Charles Njonjo of Kenya, and President Kenneth Kaunda of Zambia. He became a personal friend of Botswana’s leader Seretse Khama and his wife Ruth. He also ranged deeply into remote parts of Africa, partly in search of his second love, stories of wildlife, especially on the fringes of the Okavango swamps. Those trips also uncovered escape routes of refugees fleeing South Africa and freedom fighters on their way in - rendering a feast of exclusive stories. After 15 years as head of the AANS, Nussey was appointed editor of the Pretoria News. From a modest beginning as a cadet reporter he had gone full circle to return at the top. After retirement he bought a share in a private wildlife reserve where he and Doreen spent 11 happy years. The final years passed in Simons Town in his seaside home with a sensational view over False Bay, where he continued to write articles and books and enjoyed the abundant wildlife of the coastal area. He died after a long illness, tended by his favourite physician, nurses and his beloved Doreen to whom he had been married for more than 60 years. He also leaves three sons - Marc, Brett and Rafe - and grandchildren.