However, they said Msimanga must address the bread-and-butter issues affecting residents of the capital. EFF leader Benjamin Disoloane warned Msimanga to guard against repeating the contents of his maiden speech from last year. “We want a clear report on how services have been rolled out since he took over. We don’t want the repeat of his last year’s speech. We want progress,” he said. He said the party expected the mayor to talk about how the City would implement the 24-hour clinic operation, entailed in the EFF’s 2016 manifesto. Msimanga must also outline how he would provide mobile clinics to wards without clinics, he said. “The mayor must highlight the plight of students who were struggling to have affordable accommodation in the City and how he would address the problem,” Disoloane said. He said private property owners charged students exorbitant rentals and disregarded the fact the majority of them were poor. “The mayor must also address how the City would deal with the issue of title deeds across the City.” Disoloane criticised Msimanga for failing to keep a promise to develop Babelegi Industrial, saying he must account for a lack of implementation of the project. “The mayor’s speech must also entail clear-cut plans on how he would insource the services of cleaners and security guards in the City,” he said. Msimanga must also talk about how he would assist the communities of Olievenhoutbosch and Mooiplaats to live together in harmony and not fight for RDP houses. “He must further explain how he would use the proceeds made from the sale of the former mayoral mansion in Muckleneuk to benefit residents,” Disoloane said. ACDP councillor Anniruth Kissoonduth - also MMC for Community Safety - said he expected Msimanga to deliver good news regarding successes achieved under his administration. “He will talk on the promises that he made in his last year’s speech and show the public that what he promised he has done,” he said. He said it was important to acknowledge that the City worked with limited resources to meet the demands by many residents. Kissoonduth said: “The mayor wants to make the City of Tshwane the safest city that will be able to attract investment from all over the world.” ANC leader in council Mapiti Matsena said the official opposition expected Msimanga to speak about plans to establish a ward committee after the process to do so was stalled last month. The process was halted after a legal loophole was identified in the by-law governing the elections of ward committees. The ANC had previously claimed that R4 million was spent in the preparations of the elections. Matsena said: “We want the mayor to tell where are they going to get the money to review the ward committee elections by-law.” He challenged Msimanga to outline how he would deal with corrupt practices in the supply chain management. “How is he going to reduce a number of irregular and unauthorised expenditures?” He further criticised Msimanga for getting rid of the Vat Alles programme championed by the previous ANC administration. It was replaced by a programme called Gata le Nna, which served the same purpose of alleviating poverty by creating low-paying jobs. According to him, Vat Alles benefited all the residents in the City. Msimanga said the event would give him an opportunity to account to council and residents about the City’s service delivery programmes. Meanwhile, the metro police have notified motorists and businesses of the temporary road closures due to Soca. The metro police parade will assemble at 8.30am at Burgers Park, corner of Lilian Ngoyi and Jeff Masemola streets. The road intersections that will be affected as they move to Tshwane House are Jeff Masemola, Minnaar, Burgerspark Lane, Visagie, Nana Sita, Francis Baard, Pretorius, Johannes Ramokhoase and Helen Joseph.