Mandla Ndlovu, who has for two years called Princess Park his home, said many things taken during the raid could not be replaced as they had been donated. Ndlovu said things taken by the City police included designer sneakers, clothes and priceless artefacts they had been given by good Samaritans. “I’ve been recycling and saving money in order to go back home to Zimbabwe because I am sick of this life. But that whole clean-up thing of theirs has set me back badly.” Another resident at the park, who refused to be named, claimed they were appalled by the behaviour of City officials who treated them as less than humans. He said that although all they did was recycle, it was just the same as any person who was employed by a company or business. “We work for ourselves by recycling, and just because they have a uniform and a piece of paper stating where they are employed does not make them superior or better than us. We’re also just hustling.” Lawyers for Human Rights took the City to the Gauteng High Court, Pretoria, following a Clean Up operation in Princess Park on February 20. Residents were awarded R1500 each in damages. “I had cellphones here and those were broken during the operation,” one resident said. “My clothes and takkies that I had bought for R900 are all gone and I am left with only old things now,” another said. While many said the the R1500 was not enough to replace most of their lost items, they were glad they were able to get something to get them started again. “It’s not often that things work out in our favour. So if they are going to give us money to replace our IDs, CVs and get some clothes back, it’s better than nothing,” said Victor Mabasa. Wayne Renkin, Tshwane Leadership Foundation spokesperson, said the most important thing to be learnt from the case was that the way the City dealt with homeless persons would have to change. The City would have to consult with Lawyers For Human Rights and other stakeholders representing the homeless before any further Clean-Up operations were instituted, Renkin said. What would have been more beneficial to the homeless was for the City to facilitate Home Affairs to enable them to get their documents in order. “Many officials have no clue how to deal with homeless people.” The lawyers said the decision by the City to settle out of court was a victory for the homeless group; because when the matter was due to be argued in court, City manager Dr Moeketsi Mosola filed an affidavit admitting municipality officials had removed people's property. He had offered the payment for “emergency relief in distress”. The City also committed to consultations with stakeholders should further operations be envisaged. The City is due to pay the 25 homeless within 30 days of the order, made last Tuesday. “We are pleased with the outcome as many poor homeless people are constantly harassed by municipalities under the guise of “clean-up operations”, said Hlengiwe Mtshatsha, a human rights lawyer representing the group.