Mayor Solly Msimanga said the City was not about to abandon the Tshwane Open, but it would no longer use public funds to sponsor it. He said the City would instead explore other ways to fund the tournament, with a view to unearth talents in the disadvantaged places. EFF councillor Obakeng Ramabodu had asked Msimanga during a council sitting last Thursday if the City would renew its contract with its tournament partner PGA-SAT after it ended last month. “In February last year mayor Msimanga said the City would no longer afford and prioritise Tshwane Open. He said the money used in the tournament would be used to address the service delivery challenges facing our communities,” Ramabodu said. He said it was quite unacceptable that the City would spend up to R34million of taxpayers money on a four-day event, which will benefit the “elite” in Waterkloof. “Our people in Gomora can’t even reach that elite programme in Waterkloof, while the people of Soshanguve don’t have street lights. “If you drive from Leah Mangope Road and from Slovo Village in Ga-Rankuwa Zone 16 there are no street lights,” he said. Ramabodu said the EFF saw the tournament as “a useless project by the former mayor Kgosientso Sputla Ramokgopa. It is useless and it is not helping us. The money is going down the drain”. “We are just making the elites happy while our people are not having services in Soshanguve,” he said. In reply, Msimanga said: “This year was the last time we had the PGA tour in this format. I am on record having said that. “We will continue to have it, but let me tell you what; we did already engage with four major anchors who said they would pledge money to make sure that this continued. But we will not pay a cent towards it going
forward.” He said it was important to
continue with the golf tournament because it would ensure that children in the townships would learn how to play the golf. “Mamelodi should be able to produce a Tiger Woods,” he said. ANC councillor Collen Marishane said the spectacle lacked direct benefit to the municipality. “Business seems to be reaping the benefits and the municipality and its system have no direct beneficiation. “Tshwane has a lot of vulnerable citizens who do not enjoy the same benefits as those in the affluent areas where such tournaments can take play,” Marishane said. He questioned how Msimanga would ensure the new financial model benefited the people when the City had failed to allocate a budget for the indigenous games in Mamelodi. The games he refers to started last Friday. “That tournament for the indigenous games is no longer funded. The games in Atteridgeville in December are no longer funded. The upcoming games in Hammanskraal during the school holidays in June and July are no longer funded, yet the mayor has the audacity to come here and promise us that he is going change the funding model of the golf tournament. How is he going to do that while he failed on a simple tournament that requires a R100000 funding?” he asked. In 2012, the then ANC-led administration obtained approval from the mayoral committee and council to license the rights package from Southern Africa PGA Tour to organise and stage the golf event.