The workers said their employer, Thalami Civils, and tender holder Vharanani Properties, had payments problems that eventually affected them. Having returned to work for a few days, they were last week yet again told not to report for duty. This was despite the City of Tshwane intervening to settle the disputes after workers had downed tools and abandoned the site for the first time. This on-and-off construction has threatened the City’s dream to complete plans to revamp the iconic landmark by the end of the month. The project has been engineered to restore Church Square to its former glory and add a modern touch and feel to the inner city. The workers are responsible for refurbishing the roads, installing pavements, stormwater drains and vegetation. Ahead of the Easter weekend, their spokesperson Dimpho Xaba sent messages to inform them that it was possible they would not be paid for the two weeks they worked in March without renewed contracts. A few days later, she informed them that they would be paid, but work would remain suspended until Thalami Civils said otherwise. However, they were paid and resumed work the following Tuesday. “Thalami Civils and Vharanani Properties have their disputes and it is us who suffer at the end. We can’t be working and then we are not working again because there are payment disputes between the companies. “Initially we thought the municipality was the one that owed Vharanani money and as a result Thalami was not paid and it could not pay us. We have since learnt that the City paid all that was due, so why are we being affected by these complications?” a worker said. Last month, City spokesperson Lindela Mashigo said the municipality paid what was due to Vharanani Properties, but there were delays with the company paying its 
subcontractor. They had intervened immediately when workers downed tools, after which they said they were confident they would return to work and complete the project by April 30. Thalami Civils said it couldn't speak to the media on on the matter as it was a mere subcontractor.  Vharanani Properties, on the other hand, did not respond to questions over the issue.