DA leader Mmusi Maimane yesterday officially unveiled the party’s new permanent headquarters in Bruma, east of Johannesburg, where it will now share its offices with the provincial structures. Two of the three metros in the province are already under the control of official opposition through coalitions with smaller parties after the ANC was dislodged in the 2016 local government elections. Maimane said the decision to move its national office from Cape Town, where the party has always been based, was triggered by growth and the need to expand its support base. “The organisation is now part of the South African landscape and I think there is now something about it that tells us that it is the only alternative to the ANC. “This is something that I have held on as a dream for the party to say let us find ourselves here in Gauteng, not only to campaign here but also to assist in our national footprint,” Maimane said. Named Nkululeko House, which means Freedom House in English, Maimane said the building would now serve as the DA’s “War Room” leading up to 2019 and beyond. “It is no secret that Gauteng is the great battleground come election time next year. As economic hub of our nation, it remains our utmost priority to wrestle power away from the ANC in this province. “If we can do that - which I wholeheartedly believe we can - we can bring the DA’s brand of good, clean, job-creating governance to this province, ensuring that jobs are created, services are delivered, and the lives of those left behind are drastically improved. “In the last national elections in 2014, the ANC held on to power in this province by the skin of their teeth. They were 3% away from losing Gauteng. That election began the province-wide movement to bring real change. In the 2016 local government elections, the people chose new DA-led governments in the City of Johannesburg, and in the capital city of Tshwane,” said Maimane. However, it remains unclear how the party would lead a coalition in 2019 should the ANC fail to gain the majority vote as relations between the DA and the EFF are strained. Maimane said the party would welcome the backing of the EFF, but the party would not compromise on its principles, including the rejection of the EFF’s cardinal pillar on expropriation of land without expropriation. The DA is heading to its federal congress this week, where Maimane is expected to be re-elected uncontested for a second term. He was upbeat about the congress, which he said must see the election of a diverse leadership and the adoption of transformative policies. The party will present its policy proposals today in Pretoria, where it will hold its congress on Saturday and Sunday.