Phasiwe said the troubled state-owned power producer was happy with President Cyril Ramaphosa proclaiming on Friday that the SIU would investigate corruption and maladministration. Ramaphosa said the SIU should also investigate allegations of graft at Transnet. “As the SIU uncovers lots of wrongdoing there might be people who will be suspended or arrested. We are going to co-operate as we support the intervention of the SIU into this matter,” said Phasiwe. Eskom had been waiting since late last year for the SIU’s involvement after former public enterprises minister Lynne Brown approached former president Jacob Zuma to authorise the formal investigation at Eskom and Transnet, Phasiwe said. “The presidency has now finally signed this request, which is why this is now going to be under the SIU. We welcome it, and we will support the investigation,” he said. He said Eskom would in the next few months also be the subject of investigation by the Hawks and Judicial Commission of Inquiry into State Capture led by Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo. “Internally at Eskom we will also have our own investigations which are going to be based on some of the contracts. We will forward the information to the SIU,” he said. Eskom chairperson Jabu Mabuza had earlier this year announced that the company was reviewing 160 contracts worth more than R1billion as well as more than 5000 contracts worth less than R1bn. The company had also announced it would conduct internal lifestyle audits on its executives and senior managers. Transnet also welcomed the SIU probe saying it will fully co-operate with all authorities. “In November 2017 the Transnet group chief executive, Mr Siyabonga Gama, reported all media allegations relating to state capture to the South African Police Service,” said Transnet spokesperson Molatwane Likhethe. Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan said the SIU investigation would be another step to finding the truth. Gordhan had been part of Parliament’s inquiry into state capture, probing state owned enterprises, including Eskom and Transnet. According to the proclamation, published in the Government Gazette on Friday, the SIU should look at “any alleged serious maladministration in connection with the affairs of the institutions”. Ramaphosa wants the unit to look at “unlawful appropriation or expenditure of public money or property and improper conduct by employees of the companies”. Gordhan said the SIU investigation was necessary because “lots of money has been lost, lots of wrong things have been done”. “Now it is the time to find out what the truth is as the state capture commission will also do and start correcting these things. The SOEs were at the heart of state capture. It should tell us if things went wrong as the process in Parliament had began to show, as well as what the public protector report shows, and many other revelations in the e-mails and so on,” he said. Ramaphosa had called for the SIU to recover any losses suffered by the institutions and the state dating back to January 1, 2010. The Organisation Undoing Tax Abuse (Outa) chief executive Wayne Duvenage said he hoped the investigation would expose state capture and lead to strong action taken against the abuse of state funds. “We hope they engage with various civil action organisations and political parties that have done so much work in exposing and gathering the facts related to many of the cases they will be looking into,” says Duvenage.