The official opposition held its federal congress in the city at the weekend where it resolved its policy on an array of issues regarding land, the economy and jobs, and elected a new leadership. Yesterday, the party also considered constitutional amendments, including the introduction of the so-called De Lille clause, which will apply to its premiers, mayors and public representatives. De Lillie is being hauled before a disciplinary hearing by the DA following allegations of unduly influencing the appointment of staff in the Mother City, failure to exercise her duties in terms of the Financial Management Act and other laws and the abuse of power. “If the president, a premier, a mayor, or any other public representative elected or appointed to any executive position in a DA government, has lost the confidence of his or her caucus, the Federal Executive may, after giving him or her the opportunity to make representations, resolve to require him or her to resign from office within 48 hours. “Failure by that member to resign would lead to the cessation of his or her membership of the party in terms of section 3.5.1.10,” the clause reads. In February, De Lille survived a motion of no-confidence sponsored by the DA after she was backed by opposition party members of the DA caucus opposed to her removal. DA federal council chairperson James Selfe said the clause would help the party deal with those who brought it into disrepute. “We have had, in the past, cases where office bearers elected through the DA have caused tremendous brand damage, and there was nothing we could do about the situation. Now we are in a position where we can take political responsibility for the performance of our representatives,” Selfe said. De Lille has described the allegations against her as “trumped up” and an elaborate attempt to remove her from the helm of Cape Town, and vowed to fight to clear her name. Before the clause was adopted by the federal congress, DA KwaZulu-Natal provincial leader Zwakele Mncwango and Eastern Cape party leader Nqaba Bhanga cautioned the party against creating clauses just to target individuals as the clauses would outlive the concerned individuals and be not suitable after they had left the party. DA leader Mmusi Maimane said the clause was applicable immediately, adding that it would not be applied retrospectively. Maimane said public representatives could not be allowed to continue leading if they had lost the confidence of their own caucuses.