Details regarding the nature of Dhamini’s alleged transgression were sketchy, but the City had indicated that it saw it in a serious light. City manager Dr Moeketsi Mosola went as far as ordering him to vacate the municipal premises with immediate effect to prevent him from interfering with the ongoing investigation into his role in the handling of public office funds. The Pretoria News has seen a letter dated March 27, 2018, in which Mosola informed Dhlamini of the City’s intention to suspend him. Mosola said the suspension would take effect pending an investigation into the alleged misconduct. He also wrote that the City viewed Dhlamini’s continued presence at the workplace as being detrimental to stability of the department. He said it was possible for Dhlamini to tamper with the evidence pertaining to the investigation should he be allowed to report for duty, and thus instructed him to vacate the City premises with immediate effect. “In this regard you are required to immediately hand over your service pistol, your appointment certificate, all keys that access council offices, including your office, as well as access cards and remote control devices allowing access to all council premises to the chief of police,” Mosola wrote. Despite the suspension, he notified Dhlamini of his right to make representation within 48 hours from receipt of the notice on why he should not be suspended. Mpho Tladinyane, secretary of the South African Municipal Workers Union in Tshwane, said they had already written a letter to Mosola’s office to object the City’s intention to suspend Dhlamini. Insiders at the department said they believed the sudden suspension of Dhlamini to be politically motivated and that his suspension could be linked to messages that did the rounds on social media, talking about his imminent arrest by the Hawks. Dhlamini's alleged wrongdoing surfaced a year after the former chief of police Steven Ngobeni was shown the door. His relationship with mayor Solly Msimanga had reached rock-bottom. Ngobeni landed in hot water after he allegedly refused to obey an order to remove ANC councillors during the State of Capital Address last April. Ngobeni’s fate was decided during a council sitting in which Mosola submitted a report requesting the council “to approve that the City concludes an agreement of separation between itself and Ngobeni, and the city manager be authorised to sign the separation agreement effective on April 30, 2017". He was replaced by his other deputy Jenny Malan, who acted in the position until the appointment of Johanna Nkomo earlier this year. Community safety MMC Derrick Kissoonduth said he was aware of a notice letter to suspend Dhlamini, but said he was still going to be formally briefed about it. Dhlamini is not new to controversy. In 2015, he was alleged to have benefited from tenders awarded by the City to private security service providers owned by his relatives. At the time, the public protector said he was being investigated to establish if he influenced the tenders awarded by the City and facilitated by the Tshwane Metro Police Department in 2013. The investigation looked at whether the City irregularly awarded tenders for security services to two companies with links to the deputy chief of police. The tenders in question had been awarded to Rivoningo Security Services and Harama Security Services. The owner of Harama Security Services was believed to be a sister-in-law of Dhlamini. He had was appointed by Ngobeni, who later promoted him to be his deputy.