With a proud history stretching from the Anglo Boer War as the Staats Model School situated in the CBD in 1901 to its present 34 hectares in Brooklyn it's the largest boys school in South Africa and it wouldn't be an exaggeration to say that it has not only left an indelible mark on the city but on the world as well. The British had occupied Pretoria and they decided that an English school was necessary so Charles Hope was brought across as the first headmaster to a building that was divided between the school and a hospital treating injured from the war. At that stage it was a co-ed school and in 1902 a boys only school.  His daily letters written to his wife are a mine of information as he described how he had to beg, borrow and annex equipment and staff. However, because it was in the city, the facilities were limited so a piece of land outside of the city was allocated, much to the chagrin of the community because it was deemed to be too far out of town. Ground was also given to what is now Pretoria Girls High and the Transvaal University College, now the University of Pretoria. The main buildings as they stand now opened for education in 1909 as Pretoria College. They were designed by Patrick Eagle and not Herbert Baker as is often thought but they do, however, look over the Union Buildings which were designed by Baker. In 1910, when South Africa became a Union it saw, as Second Master and school historian John Illsley says, “nation building the 1910 version”. “After the Anglo Boer War the authorities thought it good to combine the school with Eendracht High School to reconcile the Dutch and English.” This dual medium arrangement continued for almost 15 years before it became an English-only school. By the start of World War II, the third boarding house was built. It was also during this time that women teachers were first introduced because many male staff had joined the war. “It was unheard of during that time, and it was incredibly difficult for them,” said Illsley. In 1948, while a worker was stripping paint with a heat gun, he disturbed a wasps nest and the original dome was gutted in the ensuing fire. Built above the library, boys and staff created a human chain as they tried to save as many books as possible from water damage. Thereafter, a flat roof was built to seal it off for many years. But an official in government, EE Penzohrn, took it upon himself to research the original plans and a replica was built. Not satisfied with just a dome and a flag pole, the school’s quirky art master Walter Battiss roped in his art students and sculptured a schoolboy out of hardwood and so Danny (Swart the “model”) was born with a rugby ball under one arm and a book under the other signifying a balanced education. Over the years in true schoolboy fashion Danny would often be dressed in the dark of night in a blazer, pyjamas, and any manner of clothing until it was stopped because of the dangers associated with climbing up the dome. He stood overlooking the city for 40 years until dry rot started taking its toll. In the 1990s old boys funded a replica with another old boy and sculptor Guy du Toit casting it in bronze from the original. And it's the umbilical cord between old boys and the school that often plays an important roll. As Illsley says, “they maintain links with the school by attending 10, 20, 30, 40, 50 and 60 Year On reunion functions which, among other things, helps to engender pride in the current pupils. They support bursary funds to allow financially disadvantaged boys to attend the school and make up an important part of the male staff at the school. “They serve on the governing body in specialised roles, often send their sons to the school which helps to maintain tradition and have contributed to major fund-raising initiatives, of which the latest allowed for a R24million hall expansion project to be paid for entirely from donations by the school alumni and friends of the school.” There’s an almost endless list of well-known old boys that have gone on to make a name for themselves. These include the Kantor brothers, Bernard and Ian, founders of Investec; Nobel laureate winners Max Tyler (yellow fever vaccine) and Michael Levitt (chemistry); anti-apartheid activist Lord Peter Hain; Advocate Billy Downer, Justice Edwin Cameron, entrepreneur Elon Musk; Springbok captain John Smit and Chiliboy Ralepelle; Proteas captain Aiden Markram; Bafana Bafana’s Mark Fish; and of course, Oscar Pistorius. With 1550 boys that start their day at 7.30 every morning, 101 teachers and 87 support staff, the school's budget this year is in the region of R115m of which the state contributes less than 20%. This necessitates that almost half the teachers are paid by the School Governing Body and so too are more than half of the support staff. It's essentially school fees that make up the balance that's not paid by the state. Since 1909 there have been seven headmasters, including Tony Reeler who joined the staff from Pinelands High School in Cape Town in 2010. He describes his time there to date as incredibly rewarding. “From a professional point of view, it is the biggest boys school in South Africa and, with its rich history, is one of the top schools in the country. On a personal note, it remains a pleasure and a privilege to be part of the school with its extraordinary ethos. To see the growth in young people as they undertake the journey from childhood to adulthood is simply wonderful.” Times have changed considerably from when a few strokes with a cane by one of the male teachers or being “jacked” by the “boss” would often keep the boys in line. How then to keep more than 1500 boys from running amok? “The boys are largely self-regulating. While we do have discipline structures in the school and a very effective house system which divides the school into 10 smaller units, each with its own staff, we constantly emphasise the need for self-discipline and an expected code of behaviour that is value-driven. “If a boy steps out of line, he is often reminded that ‘we don’t do that here’. Our expectations of the boys are very high indeed.” As an old boy, who has a son in the school, wherever I go only good things are ever said about the institution. With such a diverse cross-section in our country and so many different views, this can't always be easy. But according to Reeler, Boys High “provides a world-class education within a state school context. This allows for boys from all backgrounds to sit together in class, play games together and learn from each other.  Our teaching staff are incredibly dedicated and devoted to their boys and their well-being. Our facilities are remarkable and the support from our community is highly valued”. With age-old rivals Afrikaanse Hoër Seunskool (Affies) across the road, Girls High and Afrikaanse Hoër Meisieskool all within easy walking distance from each other, thousands of young people's lives are influenced and shaped every day. “We have an excellent relationship with the neighbouring schools and support each other at all times. We do a number of activities together and our pupils often socialise together. While we do compete with each other often, particularly Affies, it is within the boundaries of mutual respect and admiration,” says Reeler. And as it is, in South Africa education is often in the news and not always for the right reasons. Much has been said and written about diversity within our educational system and for Reeler deep and meaningful discussions around diversity are critical for our children’s sake and that of  our country. “We work very hard with our staff and boys to get them to engage with each other, talk, debate and discuss differences and similarities. Many assembly messages are on the strength that comes from difference and acceptance thereof. We try really hard to 'see' each boy and who he is and we are always open to change that which needs changing.” A poignant reminder of how fragile life can be plays itself out every day at 5.30pm when a trumpeter plays The Last Post from the west tower of the main building. In the 1990s, the school adopted it as a way of paying tribute each afternoon to all those of the school who have passed away while at school, as well as remembering its war dead. When it's played, all boys and staff come to a halt, even on sports fields and observe a few moments' silence. Every headmaster since the school’s beginnings has left a lasting legacy, so it would only be right to give the incumbent the last word. “It is important to me that the influence I may have had has caused people to think - academically from a critical thinking perspective, but more importantly, on an inter-personal level as they try to understand each other. We are different and there is no use in pretending we are not, but we can be united in common causes - be they our religion, our values or our aspirations. “I want the boys to be able to disagree from a position of respect for another person’s point of view and I want them to influence others for the good.”