GOITSEMANG TLHABYE SITTING back and watching others telling the world and future generations about African heritage and history needs to come to an end. Mamelodi residents came out in their numbers to celebrate and welcome the launch of the first ever book solely about the township. The book Mamelodi: Reflections of a lifetime, written by Aubrey Mogase, details the rich history of the township through photographs, maps, drawings and even aerial shots of what the township used to look like years ago. Mogase, also a member of the Mosito Wa Mamelodi heritage foundation; speaking at the book launch held at Jack Budha pub in Mamelodi yesterday, said it had taken him close on four years to gather information for the book. He said his drive to push forward with the book was because he wanted it to be used as a mirror which people from the community and outsiders should look at it through. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  As he believed that Mamelodi and numerous other townships across the city had a wealth of knowledge and history that was not being recognised or told. By his digging he said the history of the township spans as far back to the 1400s. As proof depicting the existence of residents even before the area was bought and established as a settlement for black people due to the Group Areas Act, was found. By telling their story through their eyes, Mogase said other parts of history such as the Anglo Boer War could not be ignored as they too shaped the community. Pictures of movie and beer halls, cemeteries, sports fields, schools, clinics and numerous other areas of the township with write-ups are all included. But what is most important are the people of Mamelodi, whose stories, talents, and influence have been immortalised. These include the likes of Sefako Makgatho who helped form the ANC in 1912 and Jazz musician Phillip Tabane who was among the first musicians from Mamelodi to be bestowed a Doctorate in Music. Mamelodi United former soccer player Simon Phetla, applauded Mogase as he said often the times of people were celebrated only after they had died. Phetla said he was pleased that someone from Mamelodi had taken the initiative to tell their story instead of waiting for people from the outside to do it. “I am glad we are finally telling our story about our people but there is a lot more to tell. So I hope that this is not the first and the last, let it be the first chapter or edition,” he said. The book costs R350 and can be ordered online at: http://groep7-selfpublish-books.co.za