This comes after the DA refused to have her disciplinary hearing open to the public. The disciplinary hearing, headed by Hans Moolman, dismissed De Lille’s application for access to the public. “I face possible expulsion and may lose my position as the mayor of Cape Town. "It is accordingly undoubtedly in the public interest for the hearing to be open, because, first, those people who voted for the DA  because I was the mayoral candidate have a right to know why the party now wants to remove me as mayor. "Second, I have every right to insist on a public hearing to restore the damage to my reputation and to ensure that the process is fair but also seen to be fair by the public. "The party does not have the privacy interest here,” she said. De Lille is now headed for the courts to have the hearings open. “On the issue of access to the hearing by the media, no ruling has been prepared I fear a situation where these rulings are being withheld or delayed until shortly before the hearings recommence, which will make it impossible for me to review them in court,” De Lille charged. On the ruling of the Moolman Panel on access to the hearings by the public, De Lille said: “My lawyers do not believe that any meaningful distinction can be drawn between the public and the media when it comes to access to the hearing.” De Lille said she understood that the panel may be concerned about her supporters or opponents disrupting the proceedings. “Such a situation can, however, easily be avoided by way of the imposition of conditions, such as limiting the number of supporters that may be present. "The bottom line is that a member of the public is entitled to see for him- or herself whether the proceedings are fair,” she argues. De Lille also argued that it cannot be contended that this particular hearing concerns purely internal party matters. James Selfe, chairperson of the DA’s federal executive, said the application for the media still had to 
be heard. Ahead of the party’s crucial congress this weekend, DA chief whip in the National Assembly John Steenhuisen has described attempts to remove De Lille as “messy”. This comes after the DA was left embarrassed earlier this year when De Lille survived a motion of no confidence against her with a single vote. This was after the party instructed its caucus in the province to vote against De Lille. “I think the DA will emerge stronger from it. For the long term prospects of the party it is right that we deal with serious allegations; the rules must apply equally,” said Steenhuisen. De Lille is accused of contravening the federal constitution and bringing the party into disrepute. She is also accused of covering up corruption, nepotism and using state funds to upgrade her private home. Yesterday, De Lille again denied the allegations. She challenged the party to open her disciplinary hearing to members of the public. “The allegations are in any event in the public domain and any confidentiality which may have existed has long disappeared. "This is primarily because my political opponents enthusiastically leak details of any charges, however ridiculous they may be. "I will continue to fight for an open hearing even if this means that I have to return to the courts,” said De Lille. The party will hold its congress at the weekend. The official opposition is expected to discuss new leadership, constitutional amendment and party policies. It also intends to introduce a recall clause. Should it be  passed, it will allow the party to recall public 
representatives. This means the party will also be able to remove De Lille if the clause applies retrospectively.