She yesterday vowed to give people in the audience nothing but a “killer performance”. “They must expect jazz music and I’ll be singing about everyday experiences that people go through such as love, sadness and frustrations. I’ll be incorporating poetry, acting and dance,” the 26-year-old said. Part of her performance will include a single, Melodi ya Dinonyana, released in 2013 under the South African Theatre Incubator Programme which sourced upcoming musicians and actors who had been active around the theatre. In line with her show, A Bird With Melodies, people are asked to dress in anything that has to do with bird’s feathers. She explained the single as a bird that comes from a place of melodies. “It carries you through the day with melodies, from the time you wake up in the morning to the time you sleep. It takes you through everyday life experiences through song and melodies. “Melodies of love, beauty of nature, pain, frustration, hope, perseverance, patience and awakening what resonates within you,” she said. When the Pretoria News interviewed her yesterday, she was preparing for her show in a State Theatre studio. She said her song had been received positively when it was released, which led her to make it a single. “I’ve been performing this song since 2013 and the reception has been amazing. The fact I’m making it my single is because people love it. When people listen to the song they go crazy because it has that African feel.” Growing up in a family of music lovers, Nqana said she started singing at the age of 4.  “I started at that age because my mother is a composer; we used to sing her songs just for fun.” She said she could not pick any other career besides music. “My music is mostly jazz with some African indigenous sound in it.” The songwriter has also been the opening act for many other artists, including Mafikizolo, which she counted as among her career highlights. “I had the privilege to open for Mafikizolo in 2015 and for Lerato Mvelase in 2016.” She said she would like to work with Samthing Soweto. Her show, A Bird With Melodies, will be held in the  Rendezvous Theatre at 8pm on Saturday. Tickets cost R80.