Thabiso Mkhonto, 26, also accepted the attempted murder charges brought against him in the Pretoria Regional Court in a statement read by his lawyer, Carmalita Smith. Chuma had previously told the Pretoria News that she had broken up with Mkhonto by the time he stabbed her more than 24 times all over the body, but in the statement, Mkhonto said the two had still been lovers. He said on the day of the incident he asked Chuma for her cellphone, which she gave him. He then went through her messages and found chats between her and a friend stating that she was pregnant. He said that, out of anger, he confronted her about the messages, to which Chuma admitted she had cheated on him with her boss to get a promotion. “When I saw the messages it did not sit well with me. I became very angry because we had promised to be loyal to each other. It was then that I stabbed her several times with a knife,” the statement read. He noted that his sister was also present and screamed for him to stop. Neighbours also arrived at the scene. The day ended with the police being called to the scene, and  Mkhonto getting arrested. “I knew what I was doing was wrong at the time, but I was angry and acted impulsively. Even so, I ask the court to have mercy on me as I am sorry for what I have done.” Magistrate Lynn Pillay reminded Mkhonto of the consequences of the charge against him; a minimum sentence of 15 years in jail. “The court looked at the statement, circumstances and admissions made in this instance. And where the accused indicates he was angry and acted impulsively, the court does not see that as a reason as he confirmed he understood what he was doing at the time and that he had no right to do what he did. “The court is convinced that all essential elements of the case have been met, and the accused is convicted as charged. The case is adjourned to May24 for the application of reports and for the appropriate sentencing to take place,” Pillay said. Chuma’s mother, Magdalene “Maggie” Raseala, said she was pleased that Mkhonto pleaded guilty. “What gets me angry are his lies that my daughter was pregnant. If Mpho was pregnant, I would be the first to know as we share everything. “When the doctors examined her after the incident, they did not pick up any pregnancy,” she said.