“We will be judged by 'I was hungry, and you gave me something to eat; I was naked and you clothed me. I was homeless and you took me in'.” In this regard, co-founder of The Untrained Chefs ZA in Soshanguve, Kgomotso Doz Thebe, said: “We want our community to be aware of charity organisations surrounding us. We want people to be aware of such institutions so they may possibly open doors to sponsor them.” The Untrained Chef ZA, together with the Deep House Junkies group from The Chill Out in Soshanguve made it their business to be judged for feeding the hungry and clothing the naked. Furthermore, they did it in style as they pulled together a chill-out place that is family-friendly too. That is something rare to find in a township. “There is a lack of family-oriented social food markets in the townships, where parents can bring children and have fun. “We realised that most parents, especially young parents, would like to come and support, but they have to stress about who is going to take care of their kids if they are to go and let their hair down. “So now they don’t have a reason to not come, because this event accommodates children. It is safe for them to come and have fun with their kids,” said Thebe. At the event on Saturday, the organisations brought it all out, with live performances from locals. The food stalls had everything for people of all ages - from chicken wraps to shawarmas, wings and chips, meat platters and burgers. Children’s stalls had popcorn, cupcakes and other treats. They even had untrained teenage boys and girls as the most hospitable chefs one could come across. Asked how she felt to see the success of the third instalment collaboration with The Chill Out for the food market, Thebe said: “The feeling when we see people coming from near and far to support us is really overwhelming. “It is because of them that we strive to bring out the best food market. One of the reasons we are so touched about this is because they inquire about the charity organisation and how they can lend a hand, the support is mind blowing.” The team also didn’t think people would understand that fun could go well with charity. “We didn’t think a lot of people would understand that the core reason for this event was to fund-raise for charities. "We thought only a few would get it, but it is remarkable how the turn-out is." The Untrained Chefs and the music group give The Chill Out a taste of Soshanguve, and they really want to bring families in the townships together in the name of giving. The event takes place on the first weekend of every month.