Even though universities across the city have stuck to their guns that no walk-ins would be accepted for new students, hundreds still decided to take a chance by gathering outside the Tshwane University of Technology’s (TUT) Soshanguve north and south campuses to try to register. When the Pretoria News visited the campuses yesterday, students could be seen gathered around the entrance and local shops surrounded by their luggage. Some matriculants who seemed exhausted as they sat in tents erected outside the university’s south campus, said they had come to the institution's doorsteps to get anyone to help them with the online registration process. Angie Mailula, said she and her brother Lucas had arrived at the university at the crack of dawn to try to get assistance. She said by the time they arrived there were already hundreds of other matriculants who had also come to try their luck. She said her brother, who had recently completed his matric, had since last year been struggling to register for a course in public management at TUT because of the poor online registration system being used. “We understand that they don’t want walk-ins, but we just need someone to help us with the online registration process. It's slow and keeps reloading without getting anything done,” she added. The siblings implored universities to consider that it was particularly difficult for pupils from disadvantaged areas to get the necessary information on how to complete the online registrations. Masego Malatji was there accompanied by her mother to get more information from the university assistants stationed outside, and she also complained about the difficulty in trying to register online. Malatji said she had been trying to apply, but online systems proved difficult and she had to go to each university individually to try to get someone to explain or assist her to apply for the courses she wanted. She said although she couldn't get into the courses she had managed to apply for, due to having acquired low marks in physics, a recruiter had also suggested she go to campus to inquire about how to apply online. “Applying online has its challenges; either it doesn’t load completely, or it's slow most times. We end up having to come here, because at least then there is someone who can explain to us better,” Malatji added. Laveko Mkhatsane said people shouldn't assume that students were acting dumb or stubborn as not everyone knew how to use the  internet. EFF councillor Matjie Lefagahlele said they were disappointed that even though close to 2 000 desperate learners had come to university for help, not a single one of them had been assisted. He said as some students had come from far to try their luck, the organisation was going to assist some of the learners with accommodation until they got their matters in order.