The registration process at the Sunnyside campus came to a standstill when the workers shut the university down after wage increase negotiations deadlocked. Clad in their red T-shirts, protesters physically turned parents and students away while they chanted “no 12%, no registration; finish and klaar”. The staff strike, which started on Wednesday, hit Pretoria and other campuses, including Florida, Mafikeng and Polokwane. Yesterday staff gathered around the entrance, singing Struggle songs and dancing, as a small police contingent looked on. Ntsako Nombelani, Nehawu’s national organiser for higher education, said wage increase negotiations had deadlocked at 6.5%, with the union fighting for a 12% increase. He said the union also wanted contracted workers to be absorbed into the university as permanent employees, so that they would also enjoy benefits and job security. He said their strike would continue until their demands were met. The union also wants all council members to stop doing business with the university with immediate effect. “Our members at the university are sick and tired of being taken for granted by the university management and they are willing to go on a full-blown strike indefinitely up until their demands are met,” Nehawu said. “Workers will not return to work until management sorts out the salary dispute and the absorption on a full-time basis of all workers on contract in the ICT department.” The union said it believed Unisa could afford the 12% salary increase. “The university attracts and registers over 400 000 students annually and (keeps) more than R400million in reserves. Our view is that they are being disingenuous when they plead poverty,” Nehawu said. Chaos erupted at the university when, on Monday, the institution opened up an extension of registration and application and scores of students were unable to apply or register for the new academic year. On Tuesday calm was restored, but Wednesday again saw disruptions which went into yesterday, when some protesters manned the entrance while police circled the block. Management and Nehawu were engaged in a meeting at the main campus. Unisa spokesperson Martin Ramotshela said they were negotiating with the union to let staff members not on strike and students to enter campus for registration.