But police spokesperson Constable Thomas Mufamadi said: “We are not the ones saying it is ANC vs EFF because we view it as citizens clashing. We will look at the law and see who violated it and then we will arrest suspects of wrongdoing, irrespective of their political affiliation.” The altercations came after EFF leaders in Olievenhoutbosch allocated 1000 people empty RDP houses despite the disapproval of the provincial government and the City of Tshwane last year. The leaders had said they grew tired of waiting for a list of beneficiaries from the Department of Human Settlements. Prior to the allocations, they had accused ANC councillors of selling the houses. In December, the provincial government approached the Gauteng High Court, Pretoria, seeking eviction orders. But the court ruled that the residents could not be evicted as the application was flawed. Both the City and the province remained adamant that the houses should be allocated to their rightful owners in accordance with the beneficiaries list. In the latest political dispute, EFF member Peter Seolela said he was called by a community member and told ANC people were enquiring about a missing desk in an RDP house used by Ward 77 councillor Sipho Maila as a community office. “I went there and found about 20 ANC members. When I arrived I told them it was their own members who took the desk to another house that was also used as an office a few months ago. That was when I was attacked by the ANC members and dragged to another RDP house 600m away. I was lucky the community came to my rescue after they saw the commotion. “While I was in hospital, the ANC guys went to the police station and opened a case of attempted murder and assault with grievous bodily harm against me.” He also opened a case, and police arrested three ANC members who have since appeared in the Pretoria Magistrate’s Court. Another man accused of attacking Seolela later handed himself over to police. Meanwhile, Maila rubbished the claims by Seolela and said the EFF was spreading propaganda in the community. He said the EFF allocated the houses illegally and now wanted to turn the people against councillors. Pretoria News