“When I did my internship, none of the others wanted to do obstetrics,” she says while reminiscing on being given a choice of departments at a busy district hospital early on in her career. “I chose it and I felt welcome - I belonged in the department.” Molokoane’s journey began during her early years as an undergraduate at the then University of Natal (now the University of KwaZulu-Natal - UKZN). There she was inspired to focus on obstetrics and HIV at a time when the disease was still steeped in stigma and denialism in South Africa. Describing herself as “short and tiny”, Molokoane never imagined herself conducting vaginal examinations and dealing with HIV-positive mothers as an obstetrician. That all changed when a Professor Moodley encouraged her in her third year at the University of Natal. “The interest started because the professor paid so much attention to teaching me these things,” she says. As an intern at Jubilee District Hospital, she got hands-on hospital experience - from the use of sonars to dealing with crises such as doctor shortages. She even volunteered occasionally as she came to enjoy obstetrics. She especially loved helping patients - usually in pain and crying, and oblivious to what would happen to themselves or their babies. “Seeing them feel fulfilled after the delivery really gave me a love for obstetrics,” she explains. Molokoane came to the University of Pretoria (UP) to specialise in obstetrics at the institution she was advised was the best in the country. “I applied to study as a registrar in 2006,” she says. “Training in obstetrics is hard, but the teaching and support I received from UP was amazing.” After completing her training, she became a consultant at UP in 2010 and has been part of the Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology ever since. She is a consultant in charge of the Maternal and Foetal unit at Kalafong Hospital in Gauteng, after qualifying as a subspecialist in Maternal and Foetal Medicine in 2015. Her time is now mostly occupied by her research into foetal growth in HIV-positive mothers, where she is particularly looking at the effects of antiretrovirals (ARVs) on growth and pregnancy outcomes. “South Africa has been hit hard by HIV/Aids, and ART is a key public health strategy to prevent mother-to-child transmission of HIV. However, recent evidence of low birth-weight and premature deliveries in mothers on ART has experts concerned,” she says. “In dealing with uninfected, HIV-exposed infants, we are trying to find the exact causes of suboptimal growth throughout the child’s development.” The study is being undertaken by the South African Medical Research Council’s Unit for Maternal and Infant Health Care Strategies at UP, which consists of a multidisciplinary team of researchers. * This article is reprinted from the University of Pretoria’s Research Matters (http://www.researchmatters.up.ac.za/)