The first council sitting of 2018 got off to a dramatic start, but still managed to dispose of the crucial matter of the tabling of the City of Tshwane’s unqualified audit report for 2016/17 financial year, which was subsequently unanimously welcomed by all political parties. But prior to the tabling of the report, ANC and EFF members objected to a call by Speaker Katlego Mathebe to adjourn the sitting for photo-shooting purposes. Mathebe said the photoshoot was in line with the council custom for councillors to take a group picture in the beginning of the year. However, ANC councillor Terrence Mashigo wanted to know about a council rule allowing Mathebe to adjourn a meeting for a photoshoot. Dressed in his party’s traditional red overall, EFF councillor Obakeng Ramabodu shared Mashigo’s sentiments. He said: “We are not here for photos. We are not models. There’s work that we want to do. The City is dirty.” Mathebe asked for a caucus of chief whips to discuss whether councillors should honour a photoshoot or not. On their return to the chamber, Mathebe announced that the whips were in agreement that the shoot must be postponed to another day. The council eventually sat after two consecutive meetings were called off because there was no quorum. The EFF councillors had snubbed those sittings, while their ANC counterparts staged a walkout, saying they refused to help the DA to govern the City. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  Executive mayor Solly Msimanga eventually formally tabled the report in the presence of a senior manager from the office of the auditor-general. Msimanga said: “Yesterday, I was pleased to announce to the public that the City had received an unqualified audit within its first year of office under the DA-led multi-party administration. “This is as declared by the auditor-general in the financial statements that are before this House. This was achieved by strengthening controls over supply chain processes, slashing unauthorised and unnecessary expenditure.  This has contributed to our success in correcting the R2billion deficit we inherited and has resulted in the surplus in these financial 
statements.” In the report, the auditor-general said the City was unable to provide him with evidence related to a number of service stands provided with reticulation. He also raised concerns about internal control discipline that was not implemented. Money owed by the municipality was not always paid within 30 days, he said. According to the report, some contracts could not be audited due to non-availability of documents required for auditing. ANC councillor Jabu Mabona then pointed out there was R1.2bn in irregular expenditure, saying it was not accounted for. He also lamented the tendency by some officials to ignore the performance of their duties. His comrade, Lesego Makhubela, questioned the conclusion reached by the auditor-general to award the City an unqualified report despite a number of discrepancies. ANC chief whip Aaron Maluleka told the House that the ANC was fully behind the report. “We welcome the report with no reservation. We understand it comes from the reputable Chapter 9 office of the auditor-general, which was put in place by the ANC,” he said. On Wednesday, MMC for finance Mare-Lise Fourie said the City was concerned about “the increase in consumer debt” raised in the report. “Consumer debt increased by R1.6bn to R10.2bn as at June 30, 2017. The difficult economic climate and the rise in unemployment levels have had an impact on payment levels,” Fourie said. Another area of concern was the material losses of R1.6bn on electricity, she said. “Technical losses incurred during the distribution of electricity amounted to R526.7m. Lack of maintenance over a number of years has resulted in vulnerable infrastructure that will have to be replaced in future years,” she said. The report will be discussed during next month’s council sitting. Pretoria News