The school’s certificate of academic excellence and a cash prize of R3 100 were donated by teachers and the members, while the school also celebrated the second year of being named the best in Soshanguve due to its matric results. The school and Unleashing The Potential said the reward was to acknowledge the excellence of the 18-year-old, who passed his matric with five distinctions and an average pass percentage of 82.7%. An ecstatic Hlatshwayo said all his hard work finally paid off - he had aimed for the cash prize after he saw it being rewarded to the 2016 top achiever. “From the beginning of the year I told myself I would be the one receiving that cash prize. And my biggest motivation was to break the barrier that learners had created among themselves. Everyone had already concluded that the award was only meant for pupils studying science subjects, but I wanted to show them that even history learners are more than capable,” he said. Hlatshwayo said, however, that he was not certain he would receive the reward, because during the first and third term of the last academic year he came second to a female classmate. But he was glad he had conquered in the end. He said he was able to achieve such a result through determination and dedication. Hlatshwayo said he was headed to the University of Johannesburg to study an LLB degree. The reward was presented to him during school assembly, and Unleashing The Potential co-founder Gift Mkhabelane said this was done to inspire other pupils to study hard as well. “This prize-giving at the assembly is working because since we started with it, the school has been doing well. Matric pass rates have also gone up from 91% to 96%, so it shows that pupils are motivated,” he said. He told the Pretoria News that they noticed pupils performed well but did not receive any sponsorship to assist them when going to university. “The cash prize is to simply congratulate excellence and to assist wherever possible. We know that varsity demands a lot, from registration fees to laptops, pocket money and other things, so this is us assisting and meeting him halfway.” The award ceremony started with the class of 2016, where the pupil received a cash prize of R2500. “From R2500 to R3100, this shows that people like the initiative and we hope business people and members of the community can assist,” Mkhabelane said. The reward comes after mayor Solly Msimanga rewarded the city’s top 30 matriculants with cheques to the value of R5000 each. Unleashing The Potential is a programme aimed to assist pupils with their school subjects. The programme focuses on pupils in Grade 10 and 11 to prepare them for their matric year. Once in matric, they are monitored and assisted with university applications.