Western Cape Premier Helen Zille yesterday said she had written to President Jacob Zuma for a national disaster to be declared after the likelihood of Day Zero was confirmed by the City of Cape Town. She assured Capetonians that there were plans in place to make water available when Day Zero hits, a period when taps will be turned off across the city. Zille was addressing the media yesterday after meeting with the National Disaster Management team and other authorities to discuss the impending water crisis and preparation for Day Zero. Zille said: “We have multifaceted plans on every level; we have plans to deliver water; we have plans to secure water and deal with the risk of disease, for education and the elderly. “It is an enormous undertaking it is so vast in fact that it is preferable by far not to meet Day Zero, because for the City it is a disaster of momentous proportion.” The disaster medicine and disaster management teams in the province have expressed concerns over the possible outbreak of disease after Day Zero. The head of department in disaster medicine, Wayne Smith, said some of the diseases they are concerned about include cholera typhoid and dysentery. “Wherever you have poor water conditions and poor sanitation conditions disease outbreaks can follow. We are busy at the moment” he said. Zille said the discussions with various stakeholders and businesses touched on how the City and stakeholders would ensure that everyone does not use more than 50 litres of water a day. She said this would ensure that dams bottom out at 15%, delaying Day Zero. The City has put in place plans for water augmentation. However, Zille said water augmentation would not be enough to save Capetonians from Day Zero. “The best option, in fact the only option as far as I’m concerned, is to try to avoid Day Zero. But we have to have every plan in place in case it hits us. Let me stress again that something of this magnitude has not happened to any city in the world,” said Zille. “It is unthinkable to contemplate managing a combination of over 4million people without accessible water. At this point, our backs are against the wall, and there’s no injection or antiretroviral we can take for this. We really need to make sure that we start changing our behaviour,” she added. The City’s desalination plants, which were expected to be completed before the end of 2017, remain a work in progress. The City implemented level 6 water restrictions on January 1, which require users to reduce their water usage by 45% and agricultural users to reduce consumption by 60%, and discourage the use of borehole water for outdoor purposes in order to preserve groundwater resources. It will implement level 6B water restrictions from February 1. This means daily consumption per person per household will be cut to 50 litres. Zille further warned that the water crisis must be taken in a serious light as many companies in the province depended on water for production. “We have also asked the business communities to explain to their employees why their jobs depend on managing water properly. People think they can buy water from the shops, but they may not have jobs. These major companies will close down because they can’t be productive anymore because water to be productive isn’t there. Many people will lose their jobs; people’s livelihood depends on this,” she said. South African Breweries “has indicated its willingness to assist in the bottling and distribution of water drawn from the Newlands spring”. General manager at the Newlands Brewery John Stenslund said it would open its collection site 24 hours a day for residents to access water.