As the Independent Examinations Board (IEB) released the results to schools yesterday, indicating a pass rate of 98.76% - up from 98.67% the previous year. On the list of top achievers were eight of the city’s most outstanding pupils. Monique Klaaver, from Cornwall Hill College, came in second among 56 of her peers who feature in the outstanding 5% who achieved distinctions in six or more subjects, scoring 80% or more in life 
orientation. She was second to Aliah Abrahams of Assumption Covent in Joburg, and not too far from her came Hatfield Christian School’s Simone Hoogenhout in fifth place. Midstream College’s Jualene du Preez, Shanley Koekemoer and Dewald Pieterse took the 12th, 13th and 14th position on the lists of Pretoria’s finest who have the pick of the best tertiary institutions to attend. Woodhill College’s Nicole Creighton and Michael Craig, of Tyger Valley, also made it into the top 50 in the category, and, the IEB said, they topped the list of more than 
12000 candidates who wrote the 2017 exams. The top students, who included Alexander Woodborne, from Tyger Valley College, were among the cohort of private students who achieved a pass good enough to enter tertiary study with either 88.50% (compared to 87.61% in 2016). The IEB said students who passed included 8.96% (compared to 9.83% in 2016) qualifying for entry to diploma study, and 1.30% (compared to 1.23% in 2016) being eligible to study at the higher certificate level. A total of 11464 full-time and 666 part-time candidates from 212 exam centres across southern Africa wrote IEB National Senior Certificate exams in October and November 2017. “Umalusi has monitored all aspects of the 2017 examination process and has declared the results to be fair and valid. There is a clear realisation among IEB learners, their parents and teachers that having the knowledge and understanding that lies behind the results on the certificate is far more important and meaningful for success after one’s schooling,” the exams body said.  According to the IEB, the 2017 pupils did very well and once again showed that with commitment to hard work over their 12 years of schooling, and with the support of dedicated teachers and parents, they could pass with flying colours.  They are ready for the next step in their journey of life-long learning,” said Anne Oberholzer, CEO of the IEB. And yesterday some who had written the exam said they were confident of the work they had put in, with two Maragon Mooikloof College pupils saying they were excited at the prospect of receiving their results today. They were nervous too, they said, because they worked for distinctions. Headboy Victor van Niekerk, 19, and headgirl Shiria Wiltz, 18, of the Mooikloof school, told Pretoria News they had aimed for seven 
distinctions. VIctor spoke of a huge adjustment after he moved from a Singapore school to Pretoria in his 11th grade, saying he had struggled. He had but worked hard and had plans for his future: “As a person you must work very hard for the future. I know it's difficult working hard for something you don’t see but it all works out at the end. To have waited for my matric results only becomes a reality today because I had blocked it out of my mind but I’m definitely not worried or nervous because I know I did very well.” Headgirl Shiria. who was at the school for almost 13 years, said big stuff was about to happen today that would change her life. The sleepless nights would reap rewards, she said. “The anticipation of waiting for my matric results is crazy I have got mixed feeling about them but I’m definitely not nervous. I think I achieved what I worked hard for and that is seven distinctions.  “I’m feeling good and my purpose through this whole journey was to really hit the mark. “People have different talents and just because some do not do well academically does not mean there is something wrong with them. People make the mistake of comparing themselves with other people and that is dangerous.” When asked how the school felt about their pupils who worked hard, principal Chris Zaayman said: “We are a purpose-driven school which is why we want our pupils to discover their calling. We are grateful for the partnership between the school, pupils and parents. This year, we have had the best results ever and we are very proud of every single pupil in our school.” The principal told Shiria she had passed with an outstanding seven distinctions, while VIctor obtained a well deserved five. Shiria is going to study for a triple major in a BSC in human physiology genetics and psychology and Victor will do a course in actuarial science.  The pair said they waited for the results to come out till midnight and were excited for a change of scenery that will take place when they move to a tertiary institution. Those wishing to challenge the outcome of their results could do so. The IEB said: “The closing date for the application for re-marking is January 10, and the results from re-marking will be released on February 5. The closing date for pupils who qualify to enrol for the supplementary examination to do so, is February 12 2018.