Some sported faces painted in the colours of their team, while others worse custom-made outfits depicting their teams. There were even those who carried loaves of bread, symbolising that “you are our lunch today”. Many also carried nappies which they held high in the air, chanting to their opposition “you are a baby to us”. The ever-popular vuvuzela was present and used to cheer the fans on. All in all, a carnival atmosphere prevailed as the fans took each 
on. When Orlando Pirates beat league leaders Mamelodi Sundowns 3-1 to cut the gap on Saturday afternoon, the fans dressed in white and black were over the moon. Pirates bagged bragging rights away from home during the second leg of the Absa Premiership court- esy of goals from Ntsikelelo Nyauza, Mpho Makola and Luvuyo Memela. The soccer match attracted fans from all over and scores of policing authorities were there to assure good behaviour in and around Loftus. A while ago, when these two giants met, Pirates were accused of instigating chaos inside the stadium due to defeat at the hands of the Mamelodi team. This time, Pirates fans were excited and sang the club’s songs with pride for the entire duration of the match following two early goals in the first half. Although Percy Tau’s first-half strike lifted the spirits of worried Sundowns fans and presented some hope, Pirates’ Mamela put the game to bed with a third late strike. Mamela’s 83rd-minute goal saw the Buccaneers shutter Sundown’s chances of an equaliser despite the Brazilians’ dominance in possession. Prior to the first whistle, the match presented the Buccaneers with an opportunity to avenge an embarrassing 6-0 defeat to the Brazilians last season. For Sundowns fans who entered the stadium singing and expecting another dominant display over the Buccaneers, the match was meant to enforce dominance over the Orlandos giants. Kaizer Chiefs fans who have the same points (26) as Orlando Pirates showed up in numbers to support the Buccaneers in the game that they wanted Pirates to win in order for the gap opened by the Brazilians with 31 points to be shortened. After the last whistle, the match might have disappointed Sundowns fans but it definitely lived up to the hype as the country’s capital was lit up by joyful Pirates and Chiefs fans. Pirates fans Hedges Hajane, Clarence Modika and Ditshego Mashilane said Pirates played well and deserved the win. Hajane said: “We deserved the win. We can win the league this season if Sundowns lose a few more points. We told them that we were going to win this game,” Sundowns fan Mike Ramphekwa said Pirates defended well but his team could have won had it converted all its chances to score goals. A vocal Sundowns fan and Pretoria News reporter Sakhile Ndlazi was expecting Sundowns to give Pirates a hiding before the game started. Ndlazi has not spoken about the match as he is still nursing his wounds.