The party’s press briefing and meeting of the federal executive in the city yesterday comes after months of serious claims and counter claims, involving allegations of intimidation, criminality and misconduct, being exchanged between De Lille, safety chief JP Smith and some of the City’s senior staffers. DA leader Mmusi Maimane said the federal executive will be recommending to the DA City caucus that Xanthea Limberg, Mayco member for water and sanitation, take the lead role in the water crisis. He also said the DA’s federal legal commission (FLC) will investigate charges against her and it is hoped that it will conclude within the next 60 days. “We have determined that the FLC conclude their investigations expeditiously so that this matter can be brought to a resolution as soon as reasonably possible, whilst at all times respecting procedural fairness and the dictates of natural justice. The FLC will also look into the charges laid by the mayor against some of the councillors,” Maimane said. Charges against De Lille include that she deliberately acted in a way which impacts negatively on the image or performance of the party; failed to carry out her duties and responsibilities according to standards set by the party; brought the good name of the party into disrepute; acts in a manner that is unreasonable and detrimental to internal co-operation within the party; and unreasonably failed to comply with or reject decisions of the official formations of the party. Maimane also said there was evidence of deep divisions within the caucus of the City of Cape Town. “These divisions were shown to have been a result of the mayor’s particular leadership style which is overwhelmingly viewed as unnecessarily autocratic, divisive and misaligned to democratic principles of openness and tolerance,” he said. The DA also found that she acted in an improper and unlawful manner in respect of the reappointment of the City manager Achmat Ebrahimby unduly influencing members of the selection panel. De Lille also acted in an improper manner when she appointed Limia Essop to the Stadium Management Board by exercising her authority to finalise the shortlist of candidates to be interviewed in such a manner as to unduly benefit Essop. “She also acted in an improper manner, alternatively failed to exercise her duties as mayor while displaying sound judgment by failing or refusing to ensure that the performance of the incumbent commissioner for the transport development authority of the City of Cape Town, Melissa Whitehead, and more specifically allegations of poor performance be properly investigated,” Maimane said. De Lille also refused to work with JP Smith when an official party decision on the matter was taken to appoint Smith, he said. De Lille said she welcomed the decision which will finally give her a chance to set the record straight. “I welcome the fact that the DA has taken the decision to formally charge me. It is disappointing that it took them so long. It is also disappointing that they are already stripping me of my powers, which they are not allowed to do in terms of my statutory duties, before the disciplinary process has been concluded. All that I was asking for was a fair chance to clear my name from the aspersions which were cast on my character. I have dedicated my life to fighting corruption, as history shows,” she said. In a separate City of Cape Town investigation, allegations against De Lille, contained in a confidential report independent investigation, by Bowman Gilfillan Attorneys is also due.