Another option is to join an early morning guided walk, offered by 012 Central a few times a year. The pictures on this page were snapped over a period of time with my iPhone, some on an 012 walk and some on my own excursions. I have a soft spot for windows, hence the pictures of the beautiful stained glass windows by Leo Théron at St Alban’s Cathedral. Another window I appreciate is the one with beautiful wrought-iron work at the historic Treasury Building which I can see from my office. The other day I noticed the single open window in the middle of the VWL building which is now home to the Department of Arts and Culture. If you look around the city you will be surprised at the number of mosaics there are, with surely the biggest by artist Armando Baldinelli lining Van Erkoms Arcade. Baldinelli had commissions for numerous buildings including the old Transvaal Provincial Administration building and the Catholic seminary in Waterkloof. Do look up when you pass an A Re Yeng bus stop because the artwork curated by Pieter Mathews is modern and historically relevant. The one on this page is in Paul Kruger Street and is a reference to Nelson Mandela and his appearance in the old synagogue during the Rivonia Trial. A short walk from the office, between Madiba and Helen Joseph (Church) streets, is the Pretoria Mosque built in 1928. Regardless of how busy the pavements are or how noisy the traffic, this mosque accessed from Queen Street is an oasis of quiet. Sammy Marks Square has an array of shops, including well-known clothing chains and the city library, so I sometimes head down there. The brick façade of the building designed in 1903 facing the State Theatre is the only remaining example of neo-Dutch architecture in the province. My picture here is of the steel arched roof leading to Sammy Marks Square. Guided city walks are provided by 012 Central and are an excellent way to get to know the city centre. The next walk is planned for May 26.  As part of our celebration of the city, we invite readers to submit their own photos with explanations of their significance. To find out more, email me on val.boje@inl.co.za