Of these, more than 200 are adults, with 48 between the ages 10 and 18 and 10 under the age of 2. For some families, the festive season was a time of great sadness, as people they had reported missing remained untraced, and new cases were reported. The Pink Ladies, a registered NGO made up of volunteers who help in the search for missing people, said it had been advised that 24-year-old Nkele Jasintha Lamola of Atteridgeville had last been seen by family on December 14. She was dressed in a grey skirt with a red and white striped T-shirt. The NGO said she was going to visit an aunt and then a friend, but did not return. Koos Willem de Wee, 64, of Eersterus went missing after Christmas. He was dressed in jeans and a brown T-shirt.  He is deaf and mute, so communication with him is a challenge. According to Dessie Rechner, director of Pink Ladies, both adults and children could be reported missing and they took interest in cases and helped families where possible.  The group was formed when Sheldean Human, 7, went missing in Pretoria in 2007 after she had gone to play with a friend in a park.  Her body was found near the Tshwane Fresh Produce Market and her killer died in prison, serving a life sentence. However, not every case ends tragically and sometimes missing people are reunited with family.  Rechner stressed that there was no waiting period to report a missing person. “Immediate response by the SAPS can save a life.” She recently posted on social media: “Every station I hear of who refuses to open a missing case, I will start naming and shaming. Wasting our volunteers’ time. There is no waiting period to report a missing person.” She wants the latest policy that states that an inquiry be opened immediately brought to the police’s attention. Ask for Form 55A, complete and (attach) a photograph if possible and give a description of the person, what they were wearing and where they were last seen. “If the missing person is a child under 18, the station must call in the family violence, child protection and sexual offences investigations (FCS) unit immediately.”  She said station commanders knew the drill. Police Minister Fikile Mbalula also stressed the need to report a missing person as soon as possible after family realised the person was missing. He said it was essential to take steps and start the investigation into a missing person’s case immediately, adding that women and children had to be treated as a priority. He confirmed last year, in the wake of Karabo Mokoena’s murder, that there was no waiting period any longer. “When you suspect your loved one is missing, immediately report to your nearest police station,” he advised.  If the person returns or is found, this should be communicated to the police too. 