“Through my experience growing up, they would say you may be educated but it wouldn’t make a difference because many graduates are staying home without work.” Ranta says his family was like so many others in the Ga-Rankuwa community, north of Pretoria, struggling to make ends meet. His mother was unemployed and his father retrenched. He knew the only way he would get to study and help his family get out of the cycle of poverty would be by taking out a loan, and working hard. He did matric at Tebogwana Secondary School and his marks enabled him to register for a degree in civil engineering at the University of Pretoria. He was self-funded but he did so well, placing fourth in his class, that he earned a bursary. Ranta said he dedicated all of his time, even holiday breaks, to focusing on his studies and went on to complete an Honour’s degree. He had been inspired by his father for the commitment he had shown to hard work, even when times were tough, and providing for the family, Rata said. “My father worked very hard. Even when the results (of his efforts) were not as promising (as he hoped), he was not sidetracked from his goals and his hopes for his children.” The family did not have much, but his father rejected material things, choosing instead to give his children the best education he could. “Even when my parents were not working at some point, and he was struggling to get new positions, he devoted any income he had received to educating us,” he added. After his studies, Ranta decided not to go into a construction company, but started his own company called Ditshimega Projects and Training in 2013. He wanted not only to succeed in making his family proud, but to do something for the community and young people within it. In particular, he wanted to encourage young girls to take their studies seriously and create future opportunity. “So my biggest aim is to change the perception that there is little point in studying,” he said. Ranta has decided to support schools that perform well in the community. And he has given generous bursaries to top achievers in matric. His partnership with local schools started at the beginning of 2013, and he hoped to continue making sizeable donations for at least the next 10 years. Being in a position to give back to the school that started his own journey to success was an emotional one, with one of the bursary winners coming from his school. Ditshimega Projects and Training had initially planned to donate bursaries to three top matriculants from the area, but he opened his heart by giving financial help to all 37 matriculants from Tebogwana Secondary School who obtained bachelor passes. Ranta added: “Over and above that, I choose to give back to my community as I am part of them. It was common knowledge that children from disadvantaged communities had to contend with a lot of challenges just to make it to matric, never mind university, Ranta said. What aggravated things was that even those who succeeded struggled to find work because of the high rate of unemployment. “You always want children to look up to you as a role model who is doing something valuable for the community; not just someone who has become learned and then distanced himself from that very community,” Ranta said. His only wish was for more companies to take the step towards assisting their communities. “We plan on using the profits of the company to sustain education growth. “If we and others can run this for 10 years then we would have a lot of positives to share with the community and the department,” he said.