As promised, contractors have started work to repair the sinkhole, which appeared at the corner of Gerhard Street and Jean Avenue last year. Roads and Transport MMC Sheila Lynn Senkubuge said City mayor Solly Msimanga’s administration had committed R25million from the operating budget to start repair work on the sinkhole. This would restore optimum business activity in the area, she said. Senkugube said this would be the largest example of such a repair. The tender had been awarded to a contractor with the necessary capacity to do the work. There were 24 sinkholes in the metro, of which 23 are in the Centurion, Laudium and Olievenhoutbosch regions. “To fix all the sinkholes at once would cost an estimated R60m and the City has committed to addressing the problem over the next financial year,” the MMC said. Site securing, geological investigations and periodic monitoring of the sinkholes are being done in the meantime.” The massive sinkhole has negatively affected trading in the vicinity and led to the closure of businesses, including the once popular News Café. Mayoral spokesperson Samkelo Mgobozi said work had already started on the the sinkhole. It had been a thorn in the side of the many motorists who used the intersection. The sinkhole is  more than 6m deep. Businesses had seen the number of day-to-day customers drop since the road was closed months ago. At the premises of the News Café, there is a sign reading: “Temporarily closed due to sinkhole.” Last September, News Café owner Gerry Kanaris had indicated that if the situation persisted, it could cost his workers their jobs. Mimmos manager George Vurgarelles said the restaurant was basically surviving owing to the mercy of God. He said the business had had to bear a continual profit loss of between 30% and 35% since the sinkhole appeared. “We try our best to keep going by sending out flyers and bulk text messages which cost us a lot of money. It’s sad that the News Café closed after 17 years; some of the workers probably started working there when the business started,” he said. At Asia House restaurant, waitress Anesipho Boots said business had stagnated since the sinkhole appeared. She said the restaurant did not make deliveries and it depended on customers showing up to its premises to make a sale. Car guard Malembe Mulambo said: “There used to be four of us here but ever since this hole I am the only one remaining. I used to make between R100 and R150, but that dropped to between R40 and R50 a day. I spend R30 on transport every day, so it has become a struggle to survive. But what choice do I have?” City spokesperson Lindela Mashigo said the sinkhole had been discovered by contractors doing roadworks on May 16 last year. It was extraordinarily deep and wide. The ward councillor, together with the appointed contractor, will oversee the administrative issues of the appointment of labour, which would be sourced from the local community for the duration of the project. Barring unforeseen circumstances, the project was estimated to take a maximum of nine months to complete. An update would be provided to the public, particularly those affected by the sinkhole, Mashigo added. “The City wishes to reiterate its apology for the inconvenience caused by the sinkhole.”