RAPULA MOATSHE
rapula.moatshe@inl.co.za Tshwane MMC for Utility Darryl Moss has hailed the R760 million Temba Water Treatment Plant as one of the most sophisticated projects in the world because of its high technological capacity. This was during his visit to the site in Temba, where the plant was being upgraded. "It is an amazing project and as a water engineer I would say that this is one of the most sophisticated water plants that I have ever seen in the world. I am extremely impressed. It is really a major project," he said. Moss said the treatment plant was being upgraded to meet the water demands of the locals. Work to upgrade the plant was said to be 90% complete and it was anticipated to be finished in March. "This is going to become Tshwane's biggest purification plantl. This is a doubling of an existing plant to enable us to supply drinking water to the area for at least the next 15 years. We are doubling the capacity of the purification plant from 60 million litres a day to 120 million litres a day," he said. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  He said the upgrading of the plant would benefit at least 90 000 households. "There are about 90 000 households in the whole area and we estimate that about 30 000 of those have water problems," he said. Water shortages constantly experienced by residents living in the high-lying areas because of pressure issues would be a thing of the past once the project is complete, Moss said. "Those people living in higher areas will certainly benefit from this system. It will enable us to have additional water in the area. The capacity of this plant is 120 million litres a day . We estimate that the demand is currently around 100 million. So we will still have 20 million to spare for this particular area." Moss said an amount of R111 million was spent through the project on local labour and local sub-contractors in this area. "It is a social upliftment programme and business upliftment programme," he said. He also visited the Kudube Dam located in the area. "The dam is the beginning of this project. In other words the dam pumps water to this system.The water in Kudube Dam needs to go through a hi-tech process in order to be able to reach the drinking standard. The quality of water that comes from this plant is of top standard," he said.
The idea behind the plant expansion was to bring about a long term sustainability of water provision in the area, he said