“The department calls on community members to refrain from disrupting the education of learners. Parents and communities should note that it is difficult to recover lost curriculum time and children end up being the victims." The department said six of its schools were disrupted, including Noordgesig Primary School, Daliwonga High School and Hoërskool Overvaal. “There were some disruptions at Noordgesig Primary School yesterday morning. However, the school continues to operate despite the disruptions,” it said. “Lesufi will visit the school today to meet stakeholders and address their concerns. A team from the department also met stakeholders at the school on Friday.” The department said parents from Daliwonga High School disrupted schooling yesterday, demanding action from school management on allegations of sexual harassment against a teacher and corruption against the school governing board chairperson and the principal. “We have dispatched a team to intervene at the school.” At Hoërskool Akasia, a group of parents visited the school in protest of non-admission of their children. “Some parents resorted to drop off their unplaced children clad in the school’s uniform. While the parents' frustration is understandable, it is a matter of concern that the children were left unsupervised. “As stated previously by the department, the school is full and cannot accept additional learners. The parents were given alternative placement at Hercules High School which they declined.” At Hoërskool Overvaal, the department said, Lesufi met the Gauteng Social Cohesion Champions on Saturday to seek their intervention to resolve the impasse on admissions in the school. “The Champions, led by retired Justice Yvonne Mokgoro, will meet all stakeholders to find an amicable solution,” the GDE said. “The Champions were appointment by the premier to promote social cohesion in the province. Further, the MEC met a number of stakeholders yesterday to brief them on the department’s programme to address the situation at Overvaal.” The department said Basic Education Minister  Angie Motshekga and Lesufi met various unions and political parties yesterday to discuss the situation at the school. “The MEC reiterated the department's decision to appeal against the high court ruling on the matter. He appealed for calm and for all stakeholders to channel their concerns to his office,” the department said. “We hope all disruptions will be resolved and the focus will be on learning at all schools.” - African News Agency (ANA)