President Muhammadu Buhari has been appointed to lead this fight after he based his 2015 presidential campaign on rooting out corruption in Nigeria. “The AU has several instruments at its disposal to set norms and standards when it comes to corruption, notably the AU Convention on 
Preventing and Combating Corruption that came into effect in 2006,” said Liesl Louw-Vaudran, a consultant with Pretoria’s Institute for Security Studies. “So far, 38 countries have ratified the convention. Its implementation is supposed to be monitored by 
the AU Advisory Board on Corruption, which is also tasked with 
supporting member states in 
preventing and eradicating corruption,” added Louw-Vaudran, who further pointed out that South 
Africa could be an example to 
the continent. Corruption - an issue that has dogged the South African government and the nation under President Jacob Zuma - was one of the deciding factors in the ANC electing Cyril Ramaphosa as the new president of the ANC last month. Following his electoral victory, and his promises to root out corruption and state capture, a mood of optimism has prevailed in the country in addition to renewed international confidence in the possibility of improved investment opportunities in South Africa. Recently, the rand climbed to an all-time high of more than R12 to the greenback - since 2015 - as part of this new confidence. African News Agency editor-in-chief Lindiz van Zilla, reported from the World Economic Forum 
in Davos, Switzerland, that Ramaphosa’s “new position has been 
a magnet for investors and world leaders who are keen to hear 
his position on the country’s 
future direction”. And just weeks after his election, the fight against corruption is gaining momentum. “After months of inaction - former public protector Thuli Madonsela’s report into state capture was released way back in November 2016 - investigators are for the first time taking steps against those named in the report,” wrote Louw-Vaudran in an article for the institute on Wednesday. “The state’s Asset Forfeiture Unit, for example, says it is trying to recover R50 billion siphoned off in corrupt deals and is pursuing 17 related cases,” she added. “Only last week the unit ordered that R1.6bn be seized from auditors McKinsey and Trillian, a company owned by the infamous Gupta family - accused of large-scale corrupt practices involving Zuma and his family.” Should South Africa’s fight against the endemic corruption 
in the country succeed this could have a domino effect on the continent. Africa already has a number of institutions to employ in the anti-corruption fight including the African Tax Administration 
Forum and the African Parliamentarians Network against Corruption and the African Peer Review 
Mechanism. The UN Economic Commission for Africa also launched several initiatives in addition to supporting AU initiatives. Budding signs of other African countries taking up the fight 
include Angola’s newly elected President João Lourenço firing the children of former president José Eduardo dos Santos from powerful positions, in an endeavour to eliminate corruption and nepotism that have been part and parcel of a country where the majority live in dire poverty despite Angola’s massive oil reserves. In South Africa’s case, the next few weeks are critical when the Hawks crime-fighting unit appoints a new head, simultaneously as 
wrangling over the appointment of a new head of the National Prosecuting Authority continues. - African News Agency (ANA)