After entering the Miss Eagle South Africa 2018 pageant, the 20-year-old contestant said it was the perfect platform to shape the lives of other people. “Miss Eagle South Africa 2018 is the perfect opportunity for me to help women become what they have always dreamt of being. I have always hated how, in our society, women were deemed weak and all the credit goes to men for all the great work that women did. “Miss Eagle South Africa is an empowerment contest using beauty with brains and purpose as a platform to empower young women to grow and develop themselves by making a positive impact in their communities. “It is symbolic of women leadership. And it is a great way of meeting people and I was delighted to meet Miss South Africa,” she said. It is the perfect platform for women issues to be discussed, she said, adding the pageant was not on her to-do list but when she laid her eyes on a social media post that had information on how to enter the pageant, she decided to go for it. It sparked her love of pageants instantly because it was different from others as it stood for women and their needs. “I had never entered a pageant before, but when I saw a post on social media about Miss Eagle South Africa 2018, something inside me stirred and attracted me to enter, because I had always been vocal about things that had to do with women. “I entered because it shaped the lives of young women.” Asked what made her feel she would stand a chance to be the “Supreme Majesty” she said: “I want to better the lives of women and myself through projects to make them realise their full potentials and mine.” Maluleke is in her first year of a Bachelor of Science degree (studies) at Unisa and has always had the dream of opening a shelter for homeless people in the city because she was always shattered during winter time when she saw the homeless in the cold struggling to make ends meet. She also hosts motivational talks for young girls to encourage self-love, giving the example of how she was bullied about her body and being called names when she was younger. She has hopes of one day being Miss South Africa. The national pageant will take place on December 15 at Sandton convention centre. It will feature nine winners from all the provinces, one of whom will be crowned queen. All nine queens will fall under the winner who will be crowned Her Supreme Majesty. Maluleke said she represented a city full of opportunities that had a great atmosphere, which is why she asked that people vote for her by SMSing her name to 35334.