Many of the latter were at Bosman Street Station in the CBD, getting ready to board buses as they left for home to prepare to resume work or school. Family man Rocque Rfurwemeni from Olievenhoutbosch was at the bustling station accompanied by his wife and child, with whom he was travelling back home to Zimbabwe.  He said his family had come to Pretoria for the holidays, but it was time for him to take them back as their daughter was due back at school soon.  The fact that bus fares were a little cheaper now than if they had chosen to leave closer to schools' opening was great for him, and it gave him a chance to go all the way home with his family. “My wife and daughter need to go back home for my daughter to go back to school. I’m accompanying them and I chose this time for us to go back home together because it’s a lot cheaper,” he said. Another man travelling to Zimbabwe with his family was Blessing Nyabunze who resides in the city centre. He said his reason for taking his family back home at this time of the year was because it was not as busy as December and the roads were open.  For him, the bus fares being lower meant very little. “Going back home this time is great because there is less congestion on the roads; it’s less hectic than December. Besides that, our lives have to go back to normal, the children need to prepare for school. Pretoria was great but our families need to go back home.” While others went back to their normal lives, Zandile Xhate, who lives in Hammanskraal and works in Mabopane, said this was the perfect time to take leave and visit home in Durban. She said this was because it was less hectic; December fever was over, it was easier going back home for a visit. “I’m on leave from work and I thought going home was perfect at this time of the year. After the busy festive season it is the perfect time for me to go home because it’s more peaceful. It is not busy and what I like about travelling in a bus is that I get to interact with different people.  “I enjoy the experience during this time, rather than travelling in December. I worked the whole of December to rest in January,” said Xhate. A CID officer for the South African Police Service who asked not to be named said he was going back to work in Cape Town. “I have spent the whole of the festive season trying to get things ready for university for my children who live in Soshanguve,” he said. The station remained busy as buses heading for different destinations pulled in and out. Hugs and kisses were shared between family members and loved ones when it was time to board the buses on the different platforms.