With about 24 years experience in the industry, Mosola got resounding applause as he weighed in on the country and city’s tourism and the crucial roles stakeholders needed to play to achieve desired growth. He spoke at a gathering of tourism stakeholders at the annual Tshwane Tourism Association Tourism Showcase held in the city. Tourism was a government-led industry, which could only work and make sense if the government provided adequate infrastructure and reliable electricity and water -something he said was his job as city manager. Tourism was important to achieve economic development, job creation and transformation of the industry, but all that could not be achieved without an honest and fully committed partnership between the private sector, the government and communities, he said. “From the diversity of tourism, we are able to recreate value and give it to communities. Hence I say you as the private sector also have a very crucial role to play the responsibility to train employees for skill development rests on your shoulders. “Our country has a past, where some had business opportunities and others none. To overcome that we need to work together and have honest and respectful relationships so that we may move forward together and grow tourism in the city.” Mosola said it was embarrassing that of all the top 10 tourism destinations, not one was in the capital and that needed to change. A new approach to expose the city’s tourism destinations was crucial as it would showcase that the city had more than the Union Buildings to offer. “To achieve our tourism goals, our city should and must be safe. That is also my job as city manager to implement. It is important to improve safety and security. The fact that we are also the most expensive city, in terms of doing business, is not acceptable.” He said the city had a task to improve costs of doing business over the next five years so that businesses could cope better. In that same breath, he reminded the private sector of the importance of executing its role of transforming the industry. “We need to work closer together now more than ever. “I promise that I will attend quarterly board meetings of the Tshwane Tourism Association. “We have already allocated a budget for tourism in the city and it is important that we show that this goal will not be achieved with speeches, but to make things happen. “I will be open to you about the budget of the city.” Mosola said he would be the first one to admit that the 2018 and 2019 budget was not enough, but it was a start and a step in the right direction. He encouraged tourism businesses to avoid the tendency of relying on European, Asian and American tourists while ignoring domestic and African tourists. He said ignored and ill-treated African and domestic tourists often opted to go and spend their money in other cities and because of that the city needed to change.