They flocked to districts offices across the city at the weekend, hoping to find last-minute solutions to getting their children into Grades 1 and 8. By the weekend 30 000 pupils still had to be placed in schools, and many of the parents who queued at the Tshwane West District in Winterveldt said they preferred the old school walk-in process of queuing and sleeping at the schools of their choice. They said at the time they would always walk away knowing that their children had been placed. Dineo Horner, whose child was not accepted at Hillview High School during online registration, said the MEC of Education Panyaza Lesufi needed to review the failing online registration. She said instead of supposedly making life easier for parents, the online registration was a complete nightmare. “I’d like to express my disappointment with the process, because it was not transparent and helpful. The school I initially applied to said it too was having problems with the online application and couldn't accept my child,” said Horner. She was one of 38 parents referred to Hoërskool Hercules by the education district offices at the weekend. They said the school was not even on their list of options, but because of the failure of the online registration they had to settle for it. To make matters worse, the school itself was not informed by the department about the additional 38 pupils. When they arrived it was to a misunderstanding; parents thought school principal Willie Beneke didn’t want to accept  the pupils. The parents presented Beneke with the placement forms from the Winterveldt District Offices, but he rejected them, saying the Education Department had not contacted the school about the 38 extra pupils. “My problem is that the department didn’t ask me if there was still space in the school,” said Beneke. “I can accept them, but cannot assure them their is a place in the school, because I don’t have a teacher, I don’t have a class and I don’t have furniture. All of which the department will have to provide." He said in addition to all of that he had to re-arrange the whole timetable to accommodate the additional 38 pupils. He said 17 of the 25 teachers at the school  were paid by the department and the rest, eight, by the School Governing Body. Another parent, Patrick Tshivhase, who was also referred to Hoërskool Hercules for his twins, said he didn’t blame the principal for the misunderstanding, but the department. “Essentially what Lesufi wants our children to do is stay at home, do drugs, crime and just become bums in life, all because of his incompetent online registration system,” said Tshivhase. A parent who asked not to be named for fear of reprisal said: “It’s a nightmare, this system. It keeps crashing and allocates kids to schools not close to where they live.” Parents apply for the most sought-after schools on a first-come, first-served basis - leading to worries that if the system fails they might not get a place for their child at their preferred school. Eventually, all 38 parents were given a verbal agreement by the principal that they should attend school tomorrow with the full uniform and stationery. “We'll just have to see what we can do. But I’m not promising anything,” said Beneke. The department said urbanisation had placed Gauteng’s schooling system under too much pressure. “It comes from the fact that everyone it seems wants to bring their children to Gauteng. "That is why we always have a challenge with demand for schoolingin the urban centres,” said department spokesperson Steve Mabona. The department could not say how many of the 30 000 unplaced pupils were placed over the weekend. Pretoria News