JAMES MAHLOKWANE Pharmacy assistants of the National Health Insurance (NHI) that was piloted with two years contracts scheduled to end this January and March demanded permanent jobs outside the National Department of Health in Pretoria this morning. The health professionals picketing outside the building claimed that they were promised continuous contract extensions for 14 years but it was now likely that most of them could be without work shortly. They said after protesting in December, the city released posts seeking to recruit 34 candidates on short term contracts while the Department of Health did not seem willing to provide longer contracts. Elizabeth Phega said: "The department of health is offering short-term contracts until March. We want to sign those contracts but after March we want the provincial government to absorb us. We want the city to terminate the posts because they have tempted our people who were faced with unemployment and if they sign those non-renewable contracts they might not be able to work for the department. The city's posts are for a meagre 34 people and there is more than 100 of us," Phega said the workers provided valuable service in poor and disadvantaged communities by providing chronic medication to people who needed it such as the ill and the elderly. "Because these health care professionals expected the programme to run for many years, some of them acquired debts but now they might not he able to make repayments," To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  The protesters convened in Marabastad and marched to the health department building in the city escorted my the police and metro police. They said that they provided professional health care and were registered professionals but they were not taken seriously by the department of health. Rose Langa said: "We want permanent jobs just like it is with National Health Insurance workers in other provinces. Only us here in Gauteng have not been absorbed but we provide services that saved lives and reduces queues in public clinics," The workers also held placards that read they suspected racial discrimination by a senior official in pharmaceutical. They claimed that the programme used to have white assistants doing the same jobs they did but they believe they were all given permanent jobs. Tshwane district director of primary health care Modise Makhudu said Tshwane health district was one of the 11 districts in country that was piloting National Health Insurance policy. He said the Department of Health afforded 94 pharmacy assistants to Tshwane Health District. The assistants  were contracted for two years which ends in January and March 2018.