Pauw, the author of The President’s Keepers, has been slapped with a number of lawsuits by some of those mentioned in the book which exposes national corruption and the depths of state capture in South Africa. In response to the latest act of support, Pauw said it was good to know that his team could now counter every legal application that may come from those against his tell-all book. “People often ask if I am scared and I tell them no, because I am protected by millions of South Africans. Every time they come for me, the public stands up and defends me,” he said. The fund - which is to be administered by MMA - is a non-profit donation platform set up to receive public and anonymous donations for fees and expenses relating to criminal or civil legal action against Pauw. MMA is an independent watchdog of South African media. Pauw said he saw last month’s application by South African Revenue Service (Sars) as an effort to legally exhaust him. “There is no compelling reason why Sars needs an order when they have already sought criminal charges against me. “This fund is certainly welcomed because I don’t know what the future will hold and whether more legal battles will be thrown at me,” Pauw said. The latest legal battle came in mid December from Sars. Sars is asking the Western Cape High Court to declare that Pauw contravened the Tax Administration Act by revealing that Zuma perverted the law-enforcement agencies of South Africa to hide from the public that he is not tax compliant and received a salary from Durban businessman Roy Moodley while in office. NB Publishers have confirmed that they will be responding on behalf of Pauw to the Sars court application early this year. “In what amounts to a relentless campaign of intimidation, there have also been threats of civil suits against Pauw and NB Publishers,” MMA said in a statement released yesterday. The NPO described Pauw as “one of South Africa’s most experienced and respected investigative journalists” who exposed the apartheid-era Vlakplaas death squad. “The news late last year that a KwaZulu-Natal police officer and magistrate are to be investigated for possible misconduct after warrants of arrest were issued for Pauw and The Republic of Gupta author Pieter-Louis Myburgh is a vindication of investigative journalists in South Africa,” it said. MMA said when the fund was no longer necessary to Pauw, the remaining money would be used to help the legal defence of individuals and organisations whose right to freedom of expression was infringed on due to legal action being taken against them. The remaining money raised would also be used to develop policies that promote, ensure and secure media freedom.