Nehawu national organiser for higher education Ntsako Nombelani said negotiations with management had yielded no results. He said the institution was insisting on giving them 7% while they wanted at least 9.5%. “They are trying by all means not to pay us a decent wage. Their tactics won’t work on us,” said Nombelani. He said the strike, which started on Wednesday, would continue until their demands were met. He also said the union wanted contracted workers to be absorbed into the university as permanent employees, so that they could enjoy benefits and job security. The union also demanded that all council members stop doing business with the university with immediate effect. “Workers will not return to work until management sorts out the salary dispute and the absorption on a full-time basis of all workers on contract in the ICT department,” he said. Nombelani said university representatives did not attend a meeting with the workers on Friday, but went to court seeking to nullify the strike. “The court ruled against them in that regard and said the strike was protected and legal. It also ruled that we could not intimidate people or block the gates,” he said. Last week, students who went to Unisa to register were turned away by striking staff affiliated to Nehawu. Registration at the Sunnyside campus came to a standstill when workers shut the university. The strike affected Pretoria and other campuses, including Mahikeng, Polokwane and KwaZulu-Natal, frustrating thousands who turned up to register. Chaos erupted at the university last Monday after the institution extended registration and application, but many prospective students were unable to apply or register for the new academic year. On Tuesday, calm was restored, but Wednesday again saw disruptions when protesters blocked the entrance while police circled the area. Asked whether Nehawu was considering would-be students' need to register, Nombelani replied: “We are in this together; even the South African Students Congress are rallying behind us and showing their full support.” He said what people didn’t realise was that this “had a ripple effect when parents aren’t paid enough money they are unable to take their children to school”. He said people also failed to realise that the announcement made by President Jacob Zuma about free higher education would come about in phases. “Only first-years will receive free education for now what about second and third-years? Who must pay for them? The parents! That is why we are striking for higher wages to take our children to school,” he said. Unisa spokesperson Martin Ramotshela said they did not take negotiations lightly and were working tirelessly to reach an agreement. He said Nehawu had rejected the 7% offer put forward by the institution. Unisa had obtained a court interdict against the strikers. “They are not allowed to intimidate people or block the gates.” Unisa has decided to extend applications for the 2018 academic year to tomorrow, while the closing date for registration has been moved to January 30. Ramotshela urged prospective students to use the online platform for application and registration.