“Women who wear wigs and weaves have self-esteem issues,” many men from various races have said to me. Being a woman, who has always had the courage to change my look and loved the idea of being an entrepreneur, I started Wigs We Love. I have often felt offended by such comments because it was definitely not the reason why we wore wigs or weaves. A woman can spend a minimum of R1000 on a quality Brazilian wig that she can style as she desires for about four years. Or she can purchase a “cheaper” human hair pre-styled wig for R500 which she can wear for about six months if she does not get bored with having the same look every day. While on my journey of discovering the REAL reason women wore wigs, I met Sharon Phetheli, owner of Substance Superior. With not just beauty on the mind, Phetheli is studying mining engineering. “I can now help my mom with my university fees and help build the house at home,” she said. “I realised I can’t have long hair all the time in my faculty or workplace. Sew-ins would just get ruined if I’m plaited and go underground for just eight hours. By the time I got to the surface, my hair would be smelling, full of dust, greasy and wet because of the humidity and activities underground.” Just like many businesswomen she decided to turn her passion for looking good into money. “I’ve always loved good hair and engineering was not about to end that. I started the wig-making business in 2016. That was one of the greatest decisions I’ve made. I’ve helped so many people who have different situations. Some hair-loss due to medical issues and I feel really satisfied when I can help someone feel good and look fabulous after going through such circumstances.” Phetheli’s story is a clear sign that making wigs is not about having low self-esteem or wanting to be someone else, but rather a way of creating employment and entrepreneurship. I have about 10 wigs of my own, which help with marketing my business. Long, short, curly, bob, straight, colour - I wear them to save money, time and my hairline. There is an assumption that women wear these wigs or weaves because they do not love themselves. It is never considered that as a black woman there are not many products available to help treat our natural hair. “I’m always late or in a rush, so having wigs allows me to worry about everything else except how I look,” Ntombi Msibi said. Msibi has purchased three wigs from Wigs We Love, which she said suited different seasons and occasions. Hair loss is one of the primary reasons women wear wigs. Three in five women have lost their natural hair line due to harsh chemicals as well as the pulling that is experienced when braiding their hair. “Back in the day getting a perm was popular but over time my hair could not handle the chemicals and became thin. I think ageing has played a part,” said Nomi*. I have never come across a women who said she wore a wig because she hated her own hair. They felt it was a neater and convenient option. “It’s fun, convenient and allows me to keep my afro healthy,” said Ubuhlebethu salon and Image consulting owner Paballo Xaba. “I have around 15 wigs and change them depending on my mood, outfit, or the occasion. Some outfits wants long hair, some curly and some short.” Xaba began her beauty one-stop shop after she found it a hassle having to visit different salons to cater for different needs. After studying cosmetology, starting her own business to assist women with maintaining a tidy look was the first 
thing that came to mind for Xaba. The wig business has given women financial freedom and has assisted with adding to the economy. Myself, Phetheli and Xaba and many other women in the business, have managed to take what has been looked down on by many, into a living and created employment. Overall, wigs are an investment as a Brazilian virgin hair wig can last four years to a lifetime if looked after and a good human hair wig can last up to six months. So ask yourself to wig or not to wig? - African News Agency/ANA * Not her real name