This is according to South African National Taxi Council regional chairperson Abner Tsebe, also chairperson of Tshwane Rapid Transit, the municipal entity tasked with operating the bus service. MMC for Roads and Transport Sheila-Lynn Senkubuge had earlier said the city was upset after the taxi drivers hijacked a bus full of passengers. Senkubuge said the hijack was a result of friction created by the taxi drivers in breach of an agreement entered into by the taxi associations. She said: “The city has called an urgent meeting to put Hammanskraal Taxi Organisation, Stinkwater Eersterus Taxi Association and Ga-Mokone Hammanskraal Stinkwater Taxi Association on terms to ensure that all their drivers honour the agreement entered into on their behalf.” The city had compensated the local taxi industry as part of a contractual agreement, she said. “If the associations failed to honour their contraction obligations, the city would pursue legal action to rectify the situation and ensure that commuters got the services they were entitled to.” Senkubuge said the police recovered the missing bus late on the same day and escorted it back to Rainbow Junction. However, operations were temporarily halted at Bloed Street Mall, Marabastad and Rainbow Junction. Last month, the city entered into the drop-off agreement with the three taxi associations, which prevents them from proceeding into the CBD. The taxis would drop off passengers at Wonderboom Junction in the morning
and pick them up there at a single trip fare of R17. A Re Yeng buses would pick them up and transport them into town and Hatfield for a single trip fare of R8. The arrangement commenced on January 8, in line with the agreement. However, the MMC said since January 8, the taxi drivers had not been dropping passengers off according to the agreement but charging them R24 and R23 respectively, instead of R17. She said the taxi drivers were then forced to drop passengers off, but that resulted in a protest by drivers who did not want to take passengers from Wonderboom Junction to Hammanskraal, Stinkwater and Eersterus. Passengers were then referred to a hiking spot adjacent to Wonderboom Junction. “The City of Tshwane is committed to ensuring that commuters get the necessary services they need, which are reliable and safe in a well-connected city of opportunity. In doing so we will ensure that all stakeholders who enter into agreements to provide service to our people do so, or risk facing the might of the law.” But Tsebe told the Pretoria News there was misinformation and confusion with regard to the incident and they would explain what happened to the city at a meeting. Tsebe added: “There were some taxi drivers who had issues, and those drivers were refusing to load passengers and take them to their respective original points. The passengers became frustrated because of the wait and they then forced the bus driver to drive them to the townships. The bus was later recovered.” Tsebe said although he was aware that there were taxi drivers who had issues, some taxi bosses could be involved. He insisted that despite the challenges, the associations were committed to the arrangement. “We are committed to the agreement with the city. We just came across some minor resistance in implementation, but this agreement stands. We will be speaking to the city to explain the situation and then update the public. However, we are committed to the agreement and have no intentions of violating it,” Tsebe said.