The Presidency on Saturday announced a new Eskom board in a bid to restore confidence in the parastatal, improve its financial position and restore its operational performance. In less than a month at the helm of the ANC, Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa said in a statement released by the Presidency that the new board was part of his intervention to restore Eskom as an important contributor to the economy. Ramaphosa, as chair of the Inter-Ministerial Committee on SOE Reform, held a high-level meeting on Friday with President Jacob Zuma, Public Enterprises Minister Lynne Brown and Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba. “Eskom is critical to the South African economy. As a key enabler of economic growth and social transformation, any further deterioration of Eskom’s financial and operational conditions could have a severe impact on the country,” the statement read. The company has been facing several challenges including a weak financial position, declining revenues and governance failures. In his statement, Ramaphosa directed the board to appoint a permanent Group Chief Executive and Group Chief Financial Officer within the next three months and to immediately remove all Eskom executives facing allegations of serious corruption and other acts of impropriety, including Matshela Koko and Anoj Singh. “The government further calls on all Eskom employees and other stakeholders who may have evidence of wrongdoing to bring this to the attention of law enforcement agencies so that culprits can be brought to book,” he urged. But it is going to take a lot more than appointing a new board to turn things around at the energy parastatal, says energy expert Chris Yelland. It could take up to a decade before the state power utility is out of the red, he said. He welcomed the presidential announcement of a new 13-member board and a remedial plan of action to stabilise management at Eskom. “This is the first time that we see credible people with a long reputation of serving South Africa on Eskom’s board. I am talking Nelisiwe Magubane, Rod Crompton and so on,” Yelland said. But, he said, it would be a mistake to think that by making the new appointments meant that all the work is done. “The job has not yet started. We have not yet stepped from the brink. The fact that we have a new board is a positive sign but now there needs to be short, medium and long-term strategies and plans drawn up.” He applauded the appointment of Telkom board chairperson Jabu Mabuza as chairperson of the new Eskom board with Phakamani Hadebe as the acting group chief executive. Yelland credited Mabuza for the strong turnaround that telecommunications giant Telkom made in recent years. “Eskom’s business model currently does not fit to purpose. It needs to increase sales and decrease cost. It also needs to increase public participation and list the parastatal on the stock exchange and have the public invest in Eskom as stakeholders. “He (Mabuza) did exactly this at Telkom that also used to be a state-owned enterprise. It surely cannot be done overnight and could even take 10 years but if we don’t start now, we will never achieve it,” Yelland said. Business Leadership SA chief executive Bonang Mohale said BLSA was confident that with the appointment of the new board members headed by Mabuza and Hadebe, South Africa would be able to regain its investment grade credit rating and pull investors back to SA shores. BLSA said the appointment of the new board - coming after two false starts in the past three years -  demonstrated “credible plans and determination” to address the governance crisis facing the utility. “and (the appointment of the new board) presents an opportunity to show South Africans and the investor community full commitment to restoring Eskom to financial stability which, if achieved, will shore up the fiscal position of the state as a whole. “We strongly believe that this step puts us in good stead to achieve, among other key priorities, stability, fiscal discipline and consolidation,” Mohale said. One of the big three global credit rating agencies, Standard & Poor’s (S&P) said it was “very concerned” about the liquidity situation at Eskom and the parastatal faced a debt default. S&P downgraded the power utility’s long-term credit rating in November 2017. A month after the S&P downgrade, the Helen Suzman Foundation filed court papers to sue President Jacob Zuma and the Gupta brothers for billions of rand allegedly unlawfully paid to the family’s businesses by Eskom. The foundation, along with Sygnia chief executive Magda Wierzycka filed the papers at the Gauteng High Court, Pretoria. Other people also included in the application included the president’s son, Duduzane, and all three Gupta brothers. The respondents in the matter included Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba, Mineral Resources Minister Mosebenzi Zwane, Public Enterprise Minister Lynne Brown, Water and Sanitation Minister Nomvula Mokonyane and Eskom. The amounts the foundation was seeking ran into billions and included payments made to the family’s coal company Tegeta Explorations and Resources. The South African Federation of Trade Unions (Saftu) also welcomed the new board, saying they had a “colossal task" to rescue Eskom from “bankruptcy and implosion, which would have potentially catastrophic consequences for consumers, workers and economic activity as a whole”. Saftu spokesperson Patrick Craven said they hoped this new approach would set a precedent for all the other state-owned enterprises whose directors and executives have presided over similar actions as those at Eskom to be dismissed, replaced and prosecuted. “The same approach must also be taken to public institutions like the NPA, the Hawks, Sars and others, which have prevented legal action against those against whom there is clear prima-facie evidence of corruption and other criminal offences. “They have in effect become accessories in the crimes for which they are refusing to prosecute the offenders, and they too must now be dismissed and brought before the courts,” he said. DA Public Enterprises spokesperson Natasha Mazzone said the appointment of the new board did not mean that the indiscretions of their predecessors should be forgotten. “All those responsible for the decline at Eskom must be held accountable. We will continue to use every platform to fiercely go after all those accused of state capture,” she said. The DA called on the new board to prioritise the appointment of qualified and experienced individuals in all senior positions; to investigate any suspicious contracts and individuals who have been involved in questionable deals, including senior executives and former board members and recover all monies syphoned from the power utility.