But parents do want to see their children should have all they need to fit in and succeed at school - including wearing the correct clothes. Many feel that the high cost of uniforms can be attributed to school policies that force them to buy specific items of clothing and accessories -  with special badges and colours - from specialist suppliers, rather than allowing them to buy plain items from a departmental store and sew on a badge or stripe later. As a result of complaints about monopolies in the R10billion school uniform sector, the Competition Commission launched an investigation into the matter. Sipho Ngwema of the Competition Commission said the probe followed complaints about the price of school uniforms being driven up by the non-competitive nature of the sector. Ngwema said the choice of suppliers by principals and School Governing Bodies (SGB) did not always follow government regulations of 2015. The commission came across a supply agreement dating to 1974, which shows monopolies in the lucrative school uniform sector. He said although government had given specific instructions to schools, more that 30% of principles and SGB’s are claiming ignorance. Their investigation pointed mostly to private schools and former Model C schools, known to be the most expensive of the state schools, as township schools often had very standard uniforms. “We discovered that there are a number of schools which are still involved in anti-competitive behaviour and in fact it was about 30% of the schools, particularly the former Model C and private schools.” He said the investigation had reached an advanced stage and details could be expected to be released soon. Tim Gordon, chief executive of the National Governing Body Foundation, said parents should be able to buy good-quality uniforms for their children at reasonable prices regardless of which shop they were bought from. The South African National Civic Organisation (Sanco) said yesterday  that “exorbitant prices by suppliers are part of strategies used to keep the poor out of well-resourced public schools.” Sanco national spokesman Jabu Mahlangu made the comment as most schools prepare to re-open for the 2018 academic year this week, and parents spent the weekend getting their children prepared. Khutso Mabokela said her child of 11 was in trouble on his first day of school when she sent him in a non-regulation item. Now she buys the “right” stuff from the right store. “As opposed to what they ( the school) prescribed, I did not buy his clothes from one of the major uniform suppliers. I opted for a cheaper option, (but it resulted in) my son being humiliated by teachers,” she said. A parent shopping for new uniforms at Constantia Outfitters which supplies to many schools in Tshwane, said schools could be unreasonable, expecting expensive blazers and other items which were unnecessary in South Africa. Children of school-going age grew fast, and she had to constantly replace items. Replacing her son’s jersey would not be a problem “if they were allowed simple plain jerseys, but it becomes very expensive,” she said. Another parent who asked not to be named said the limited number of suppliers in Pretoria contributed to high prices we have to pay, “because we have no other outlets where we can source clothing”, she said. One parent asked for an opinion proposed a standard uniform for all schools, such as a blue T-shirt and khakis trousers or grey skirt. But some parents argued that if you want the best for your child, including a good school, then you must pay the price. Isabel Kgopong said her child will be attending Pro Arte Alphen Park and she had about R1700 for the whole package. “From the blazer all the way down to the socks, I have put money aside for my son.” Buhlobo Kewana, who will be attending Pretoria High School For Girls, was excitedly shopping for her uniform. Her mother said quality education comes at a cost. “Let’s face it: quality education requires a lot of money. From the school fees, stationery and uniform, it is what it is,” she said. Buhlobo is very excited for Wednesday when she will be starting Grade 8. It is hoped that the commission’s findings will lead to a reduction in the cost of school uniforms countrywide if more of the school uniform is generic.