But now the R2billion state-of-the-art municipal headquarters known as Tshwane House is up and functioning in the heart of the 
capital city. The building on Madiba Street has quickly become a landmark in the city. Thousands pass by daily but this is a public building so you can walk into the foyer, look up and admire the large artwork of jacaranda trees, depicting the feel of the Jacaranda City. Tshwane House is a modern government building, built through a public-private partnership with Tsela Tshweu Consortium, that aimed for a Five-Star Green Star SA certification. Located at the intersection of Lillian Ngoyi Street opposite Sammy Marks, the large H-shaped building provides working space for more than 1500 City employees, who now enjoy the ease of closer contact and collaboration with one another. The building was designed to provide a comfortable, healthy and productive working environment for its occupants, with an overall environmental strategy encompassing transport, indoor environmental quality, energy, water and waste. There is plenty of natural daylight thanks to windows on the exterior and a large atrium, and 70% of the office space has access to an external view, with blinds adjusting to the amount of light. The eastern side of the building houses the mayoral and city manager’s offices. Previously, the mayor was located in Centurion and the council chamber was at Sammy Marks. The building is designed to engage with the public and the council chamber - where monthly meetings are held - has media and public galleries and booths for translators. On this eastern side facing Sisulu Street is an open park area which can be used for public functions. The Tshwane House project was initiated by the former ANC-led administration, but the honour to move into it fell to the DA administration. It is located on the site of its predecessor, Munitoria, which was imploded in July 2013 - nearly 16 years after part of the old Munitoria building had been destroyed by a huge fire in March 1997. Munitoria had been the municipal headquarters for 44 years, most of that time housing the apartheid regime synonymous with Pretoria. Many documents were destroyed in the fire - but a new office for a new administration symbolically and physically rose in its place. This gave the opportunity for a building which could provide staff with a comfortable and productive working environment and, as mayor Solly Msimanga said, create a better co-ordinated and more effective city service, with most departments now situated under one roof. Meanwhile, the decision to stay in the city centre has been good for the rejuvenation plans driven by the city to remake the city into a world class capital.