Meet Anne Keyworth who recently retired as head of the Arcadia City Improvement District (CID), handing over the baton to her daughter Catherine. Keyworth has always loved Pretoria, in particular Arcadia where she once owned a thriving florist in the Kingsley Centre. She said she became concerned when she started to notice signs of urban decay in areas of Pretoria and other cities like Joburg that she visited delivering flowers. She knew deep down that if this decline was not arrested it could end in property values dropping and nobody would feel safe walking in the streets of the suburb. Owner of City Property, Jeff Wapnick - whose business model includes rejuvenation of the city - said were it not for the efforts of Keyworth, Arcadia could have “gone the same way”. She used her ties to business and a can-do attitude to engage the mayor at the time, Bob Zylstra, to come up with a plan to protect Arcadia, one of the city's oldest suburbs dating back about 160 years. In 2002, she registered the Arcadia CID, operating from an office in Kingsley Centre. Her husband Colin may have had his concerns that the work this mother-of-three was undertaking was “too hard” but she persevered and earned his respect and support. It starts with simple things, says Keyworth, like if you see litter, pick it up. It is about knowing the people, and what is going on in your area, and leading by example. “You can’t sit in an office in this job, you need to be out looking where the problems are so you can fix them.” It is also about teamwork, and it is not hard to picture gutsy Keyworth in boots and gloves, with her crew, cleaning up the Apies River -  the bane of her life. On a cold day there’d be coffee and rusks for the team, and on a hot one ice cold Coke. Unhappy with her initial security service provider, Keyworth started her own company and in her fifties became a registered security guard herself. She gave and insisted on respect for her team and, over time, they became much more than security; now they are tour guides giving directions and keeping an eye on tourists’ safety; crime watch finding drug stashes “under stones, up trees and drain pipes”, and on civic duty, reporting problems like water leaks to the authorities. She remembers the time in 2013 when Nelson Mandela was being treated in the Heart Hospital in Park Street, and the media was camped outside. Unasked, she and her team would do an early morning sweep so that those watching the TV coverage wherever they were in the world did not get a poor impression of Pretoria, she said. One of the challenges is helping lost children, some left behind after a mass event at the Union Buildings, others having wandered off. Asked what she would change if she had a magic wand, she lists the incessant hooting of taxis and the fact that they stop where they want, the city’s old uneven pavements and poor street lighting, and public spaces like the Apies River. “I have poor vision in one eye so I am very aware of the uneven pavements; and the lighting on the ground is shocking - I would lower the street lights to below the trees,” she said. “I would create beautiful open spaces with street furniture and a street cafe and information kiosk in Zeederburg (Street) opposite the Union Buildings clean the Apies River, and spray the old Jacaranda trees because termites are slowly killing them,” she said. As she reflects on her work for the CID, she shares credit for her success, praising those who supported her including her family and city business owners such as Peter Buchel - the chairperson of the CID - and Jeffrey Wapnick, who hosted her farewell, Allen Joss, and others for their support - as well as mayors, the metro police and city officials past and present. “I remember Peter Stathakis saying to me that the CID is the custodian of property owners and if you don’t stop urban degeneration, property becomes worthless, and investors walk away.” Those who have worked closely with Keyworth are full of admiration for her, and have learnt from her experience. Her job took her to meetings in the UK and the US, and she has engaged widely with other CIDs on setting up and running city improvement projects. Now that she is retiring, she is happy to hand over to Catherine - although she does tease Wapnick as her farewell draws to a close, that after a break sorting out her new home, she would not mind helping tackle him some of the issues she’s noticed in the CBD.