Wollies Animal Project in Pretoria North said they had taken in 13 dogs between New Year's Eve and yesterday morning, all traumatised and some physically injured. Founder of the shelter Cilla Trexler said they were nursing back to health the many traumatised and physically hurt pets, saying one of them was a dog that got hurt when it tried to escape through a palisade fence. “What enjoyment do people get out of of a few minutes of noise, a few pretty lights and one hell of a noise? In a few seconds loads of money literally goes up in flames. And before you know it, it is all finished and in these few short minutes, the effects on animals like this dog are devastating and much heartache is felt.” She said dogs were brought in from all over the city: “We received calls right through the night from as far as Centurion, that animals were picked up and people wanted to bring them through to us.  “We also received quite a lot of calls from people who found dogs that got hurt. Due to the fact that we don't have a vet I asked them to take them to the nearest vets.” Trexler said a lot of them were injured when hit by vehicles and just left either in or next to the road: “We tried to catch a few that were scared, but you even struggle to catch them as they run away.” “People must contact us if their pets are missing or they see pets on the streets. We urge members of the public to spread the word and also forward the pets to other shelters.” They were taken in and given something to calm them down, she said.  The City went on a manhunt for people who sold fireworks without permission, and for people who were discharging them without consent. They had provided a list of areas designated for fireworks displays in order to protect both animals and people, and maintain peace. “But even those who had permission to discharge went big and that caused a lot of damage to city pets as they heard the noises louder,” animal protection group, Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (SPCA) national spokesperson Meg Wilson said: “Not only are the pets affected by fireworks, but so was wildlife, and wildlife had no assistance like pets.” She said pets heard the noises louder than humans, and that created fear and distressed them. Faerie Glen animal clinic said fireworks might have been fun for people but were scary for pets, and they gave tips for pet owners to follow during this time of the year where fireworks were used mostly, including how pet owners had to tag and microchip their pets, create a safe haven for them pets in a secure, cosy part of their house, turn on the television or music to mask firework sounds and, if needed, pet owners were advised to see their veterinarian for medication options.