The Brazilians signed New Zealand forward Jeremy Brockie yesterday on a five-year contract just before the close of registration for the 2018 CAF Champions League squads. Brockie’s move ended a protracted saga that started in August and threatened to cause a transfer civil war between Sundowns and their Tshwane neighbours SuperSport United. Matsatsantsa a Pitori chief executive Stanley Matthews went as far as threatening to lay a complaint with the Premier Soccer League over the Brazilians’ conduct in their bid to sign the forward. Brockie physically stayed at SuperSport after they played hardball in the August transfer window, helping them win the MTN8 and reach the final of the CAF Confederation Cup. But after the high of that success waned, so did Brockie, which prompted coach Eric Tinkler to say that the Kiwi’s heart wasn’t at the club any more. Brockie went 10 games without a goal in the league, a terrible return for a forward who was just four goals off overtaking Abram Raselemane and becoming the club’s all-time leading goal scorer, having netted 54 goals in three years with the club. “It’s never easy to lose a key player like Jeremy, especially off the back of three great seasons with us in which we made five finals and he became the second highest scorer at the club,” a solemn statement from Matthews read. “We also understand that at his age this is Jeremy’s last big move and opportunity to secure his financial future. “Given that he has made a significant contribution to the club on and off the field our board have agreed to sanction his move to Mamelodi Sundowns and we wish him well in his future.” The 30-year-old international forward will fit in well in the most potent offensive unit in the country, spearheading an attack that’s supported by Percy Tau, Oupa Manyisa and Themba Zwane with Anthony Laffor and Aubrey Ngoma waiting in the wings, while there’s still Sibusiso Vilakazi, Khama Billiat and George Lebese. Sundowns have missed a genuine centre-forward which has forced Mosimane to play without an out-and-out striker, using Tau, Vilakazi and even Laffor as the point of reference. While these players contributed to Sundowns being the most prolific side in the league, they weren’t prolific individually and struggled to consistently reach double figures. The Kiwi can reach those figures and he will benefit from good supply in a team that creates a lot of scoring chances but doesn’t convert them as much as they should. “It’s unbelievable the way we miss. Sundowns can just miss goals,” Mosimane said. “The history says that Mshishi (Zwane) scores six to seven a season. “Percy, eight to nine. Laffor, when he doesn’t have injuries, scores six to seven. Keke (Hlompho Kekana) will score five. Khama will score eight. (Tiyani) Mabunda will score four or three. That’s why we have been the top scoring side for the last five years (because goals are widely spread). “If I start complaining about goals today I would be bitter. What I would like to talk about is the conversion ratio. “I am not happy with the rate but we are scoring goals.” The arrival of the sniper will go a long way in improving that conversion rate, and who knows,  Sundowns and Brockie can add to their success by getting something that they both have missed - the Lesley Manyathela Golden Boot.