Pretoria - The Bishop of Pretoria’s Methodist City Mission, Themba Mntambo, has thrown his support behind the alleged victims of sexual abuse who caused a stir when they protested during a service on Sunday. Mntambo said issues of sexual harassment were a serious matter to the church. He said he understood why the young women had acted in the confrontational manner which was captured on video and shared on social media. “They were well within their rights. They felt aggrieved,” he told the Pretoria News. “We don’t judge the young girls at all this was their desperate way of crying for help, of grabbing our attention.” He confirmed that allegations of sexual harassment had been lodged against the church steward, accused by the two girls, who on Sunday disrupted a church service and wielded placards on a stage. Church announcements were being made to the congregants at the time. The video footage caused outrage after church members and others close to the matter said the man talking when the women stood up was the steward reported to have sexually assaulted them last year. The video of the demonstration went viral. In it, two protesters can be seen holding placards with the words “Stop Pledging Thokoza Statement” and “Stop Sexual Harassment”. Then a kind of verbal altercation between one of the protesters and what appears to be a church official can be seen in the video. One of the girls furiously points a finger at the church steward. In the footage, another female congregant takes the mike and starts singing over the furore, drowning the noise down and the girls are ushered off the stage by other female congregants. Another woman is heard in the background condemning the protesters for causing an uproar, and asking where their parents were. Mntambo said the steward would be suspended amid investigations. “We will inform him that he needs to step down from leadership until the matter is resolved.” He said allegations were brought to the attention of church officials late last year. “We were under the impression that the matter had been resolved so we were taken aback by the protest on Sunday.” He said two retired ministers had been appointed to handle the matter. “At that time it seemed as if the matter had been resolved. We agreed we would continue to investigate and find out exactly what it was that was resolved.” He said churches should be considered places of comfort and solace and he would be disappointed if the allegations turned out to be true. “If you cannot even trust a church for safety, then where else should you turn to?” he asked. He said that among the procedures being followed by the church was meeting with a victim’s family in order for the matter to be further dealt with. Pastoral care would need to be facilitated. “The new minister at the church has already met the victim’s family. They had a four-hour meeting discussing the incident,” said Mntambo. “Part of feeling safe is to be able to voice your freedom of expression.” Churches had to practise what they preached, he said. The incident has sparked numerous reactions on social media: Sazi Chomy Mpolweni: “This is disgusting; the church should be protecting women and children we are trying to fight crime.” Lihleli Vellem: “It’s quite disturbing rather and by no means in society, work, school, more so at church do I ever condone the victimisation of women and children no young woman should ever be violated or made to feel unsafe in the hands of any male regardless of what position that man holds in church, work or anywhere it irks me to see that some men really don’t understand the basic concept of respecting women and children and treating them in a dignified manner it really does.” Siya Hloni Nokele: “The matter was reported to church leaders, they had a meeting. The only thing they did was ask the victim if she did have an affair with this man. Then said they would pray for her and him qha. He kept his position as igosa.” Nomawethu King Ndondo: “These girls are survivors!!!! The ones defending this man have failed them and so will society.” Pretoria News