Revellers, from the city and afar, trickled in from the moment the doors of the relatively new entertainment venue opened at 3pm. The big names on the list attracted music lovers to occupy most of the 8500 seats - with others in the "golden circle" around the DJ box. The venue teemed with people who sang along and danced, cheered and had a good time as they ushered in the new year. From the minute they started spinning the decks, the DJs had everyone on their feet. Opening acts like Ralf Gum and Vin Deysel immediately delivered on the promise to make the end of 2017 memorable. The Johannesburg duo of Black Motion, playing an hour-long set between 8 and 9pm, got the crowd in the mood. They climbed on the decks to show their fans how to dance to their beats. Then it was time to make way for Soweto's much-sought-after DJ Kent. The revellers agreed the event had already delivered on the promise of a night never to be forgotten. DJ Kent kept a straight face, in keeping with his "serious" outlook, as he spun hit after hit, leaving the space when Jazzy D came on to play ahead of American DJ Cocoa Chanelle, who was to take revellers through the much anticipated countdown to midnight and into 2018. Playing Durban Destruction Boy’s extremely loved Gcom song Omunye, she won over the hearts of the partying crowd. And then Cape Town’s hip hop artist Ready D burst onto the stage, interacting with the crowd and, at some point, giving them a taste of his original love - being a turn-
tablist. Dino Bravo took the baton as the crescendo built up, handing the decks over to Euphonik, who thrilled. And, as he has become infamously known for, he encouraged the crowd not to accept what had not worked for them in 2017 as they went into 2018. Euphonik spun and spoke and made sure that the local brand was kept as much alive as the others had managed, playing much loved dance songs, sometimes over and over again, as he encouraged the audience to have fun. And then, just as the sun peeped out from the horizon and people thought they could take no more, the man known as the grand master of the turntables, DJ Black Coffee, came on. But, instead of dancing around as they had been, they clamoured around the stage and sat in their seats, mesmerised by the maestro, who has made his fame nationally and abroad. They moved, but only slightly, to his dance beats, singing along, whistling, cheering, hands raised.  For a full hour he held them as if in a spell, with a calm bubbling under, of people seemingly afraid of moving or looking away, in case the reality that they were in the presence of the internationally acclaimed South African music god would become undone. And when he was finished with single-handedly providing them with pleasure, he got off and others came on, breaking the spell and galvanising people into gyrating, drinking, singing loudly and partying until 7am, before either going home to rest or, as some said, to finish off what was a massive start to the year.