Student activists and their sympathisers argue that President Jacob Zuma vindicated the campaign by declaring free varsity education  last month. Demanding free education, students protested at universities across the country during 2015 and 2016. A number of the protests turned violent, resulting in arrests of several student leaders and expulsions. Those arrested continue to attend courts, particularly in Pretoria, Joburg, Durban and Cape Town. Mcebo Dlamini, former Wits University student representative council (SRC) president charged in 2016, recently complained on social media about being “subjected to strenuous court appearances”. Dlamini said he had appeared 30 times in court since his arrest. He faced charges including public violence, assault, theft and damage to property. “I must say, I am tired,” he said. Masixole Mlandu, a UCT student, took to social media yesterday to call for amnesty. He was one of several students set to appear at the Wynberg Magistrate’s Court yesterday. “As we welcome the announcement of free education, we must also raise our hands up high for charges of all students across the country to be dropped,” said Mlandu. “It is our belief that South Africa is a country built on the principle of reconciliation. “If the government was willing to forgive white people for the slaughter and dispossession of African people, surely the NPA can forgive students for burning pictures, buildings and disrupting the white establishment,” he said. Another student, Amos “Amla” Monageng, an EFF Student Command leader suspended indefinitely from the University of Pretoria (UP), is also in a  similar position to Dlamini. He was arrested and charged in 2016 and continues to appear at the Pretoria Magistrate’s Court. Monageng was barred from continuing with his informatics degree studies. He was doing his second year at the time. He faced charges including malicious damage of property, incitement of violence and assault. “I vehemently deny all of them,” he said. Monageng called for amnesty, saying the government’s decision to introduce free education proved they had embarked on a just struggle. “They should withdraw the charges unconditionally, given that the government has vindicated our cause by giving us free education. It means we were fighting a just cause,” he said. “You’d remember that the MK (Umkhonto weSizwe) and Apla (Azanian People’s Liberation Army) cadres arrested during apartheid had to be released after the settlement and agreement (to usher in democracy). “Given that the president has pronounced on free education, why are we still being prosecuted? “We’ve been vindicated. Let the charges be withdrawn unconditionally, let those expelled from universities go back.” Sthembiso ka Shandu, former deputy president of Tshwane University of Technology’s (TUT) Soshanguve campus, echoed Monageng’s argument. “The mere fact that President Zuma and Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa now agree free education is feasible, there must be amnesty for students. “Whatever we did, we believed it was in the best interest of the country’s students,” said Shandu. “Very soon everyone will enjoy the fruits of students who fought. If you’re expelled or jailed you won’t benefit from something you fought for.” TUT management last week threw a lifeline to Soshanguve campus student leaders expelled during fees protests. Those whose expulsions were rescinded included former SRC members Mildred Nkhwashu, Hector Singuni and Precious Rapetsoa. TUT expelled them for five years in 2016. The trio pleaded guilty at an internal hearing for organising and participating in an illegal gathering which ended up being marred by clashes between students and security guards. “We’ve welcomed the decision of the university. I think the university has been strategic to avoid further protests,” said Shandu. “I believe other universities should follow this example. All students should be brought back.” Boitumelo Senokoane, an academic sympathetic to #FeesMustFall activists, said he knew a number of students facing jail time or criminal records. Many others remained expelled by institutions. “There’s no reason for universities to continue victimising these leaders. “What these leaders fought for has been realised. They have been vindicated by the announcement by President Zuma.” Alex Mdakane, Gauteng secretary of the Young Communist League, said: “To continue with the prosecution and subsequent sentencing of #FeesMustFall activists is a subversion of justice. “Their only crime was to call for free education for the poor.” However, the NPA doesn’t believe withdrawing the cases would be in the interest of justice according to its Gauteng spokesperson Phindi Louw-Mjonondwane. “Much as we agree that the protests were for a worthy cause, the NPA is however more concerned about the criminal elements that were detected during the protests. “(It) would be failing in its mandate if it were to withdraw cases with evidence that acts of criminality may have been committed. “The NPA respects the rights of citizens to protest, but those protests should be within the confines of the law,” Louw-Mjonondwane said.