Jack Bloom, the DA’s Gauteng shadow MEC for health, insisted at the weekend that 62 patients were still missing. On the other hand, the provincial department maintained all the patients were identified and removed from the 27 deadly NGOs. Bloom said he will today open a missing persons case at the Joburg Central Police Station in a bid to have the 62 located, whether dead or alive. His unwavering conviction that the patients are unaccounted for was based on an e-mail a Gauteng health official allegedly sent to NGOs last week. It asked NGOs to help the department find missing patients. It said: “Please check this list of 62 not located Life Esidimeni patients in your NGO's facilities and respond to us if any of them is receiving care from any of your facility (sic).” Bloom said yesterday the e-mail was an “appalling” attempt to find unaccounted for mental patients. “This is not how you track down missing people,” he said. “The Esidimeni nightmare isn’t over. We still have 62 people who are unaccounted for. Many may be dead. “Where are these people? Maybe these people are in train stations wandering around or unidentified at mortuaries.” The 62 could be part of the 1712 psychiatric patients moved by the Gauteng health department to 27 NGOs from Life Esidimeni in 2016. Health Ombudsman Professor Malegapuru Makgoba revealed that 143 of the patients died in the NGOs. All these NGOs operated unlawfully. Testifying before the Esidimeni inquiry in October, director-general of the national Health Department Dr Malebona Precious Matsoso said 59 patients discharged from Life Esidimeni remained unaccounted for. Thabo Masebe, spokesperson for the Gauteng government, rejected assertions that there were any missing Esidimeni patients. “That would be very strange because the people who had been transferred to NGOs from Life Esidimeni were all accounted for,” said Masebe. “There was an exercise that was done by the joint task team comprising experts and officials from the national Department of Health and the provincial government. “The team was able to identify all the mental healthcare users who were transferred to the said NGOs from Life Esidimeni. “All of them were removed from the NGOs and transferred to Life Esidimeni and new facilities,” he added. Christine Nxumalo, a member of the committee of families that lost their relatives, threw a spanner in the works. She said these patients were in their respective homes, which was problematic. “We were part of the relocation team. "It was discovered (during that process) that some of the patients did not go to the NGOs (when removed from Esidimeni), but rather went home with their loved ones,” said Nxumalo. “A  lot of those patients are home with their loved ones.” The focus should be on returning these patients to psychiatric care, Nxumalo said. “Some of the families are struggling. A lot of them are calling in and say they want their loved ones to go back to the system. “Obviously the reason why they were in an institution to begin with was because families couldn’t cope and they needed to be in an institution. “The fact that they were sent home with this relocation was problematic to begin with. A lot of them need to come back into the system and be assisted.”