Gauteng Premier David Makhura dropped the bombshell when he testified in the Alternative Dispute Resolution Hearings before retired deputy chief justice Dikgang Moseneke. “I could have done something to be more responsive,” said Makhura. The premier, who said he was not trying to absolve himself from taking responsibility, admitted government ignored warnings from civil society and other medical professionals regarding the cancellation of the Life Esidimeni contract. Makhura said he intervened too late. “I regret that I was not aware. I know this is not for anybody in a position of power to say ‘I was not aware.’ It may be difficult for the families to believe me,” Makhura said. The premier said he was only aware of the disaster after at least 36 patients died and he sprung into action to ensure NGOs were closed and an investigation was instituted. He was made aware of the deaths when former health MEC Qedani Mahlangu gave answers to the provincial legislature. Makhura and finance MEC Barbara Creecy shocked the Life Esidimeni hearings by claiming the health department was never in such dire financial straits which necessitated the cutting of services. The two both testified before the  hearings that despite testimonies by Mahlangu, the project was not implemented in a effort to try to save costs. Instead, government was willing to offer the department more money to ensure it was able to look after the vulnerable. Creecy said the department was not told to cut costs on core health services. Makhura and Creecy said that when the plan was presented to them, they were informed that patients would be moved to government institutions and not to illegal NGOs. Creecy said: “We said if you can offer the same quality of service then go ahead.” She added that there was never plans by the provincial government to reduce spending on mental health services. At least 144 psychiatric patients died when they were moved from Life Esidimeni to the makeshift NGOs - some of which were not registered properly. Creecy said that when the plan was presented by Mahlangu and former head of department Dr Tiego Selebano, the executive was assured that government would be able to offer patients the same level of care. While NGOs have testified they never received payments for their services; Creecy said over R47million was transferred to NGOs. Precious Angels - where the majority of patients died - received over R1m. Both Makhura and Creecy apologised to the families. The hearing continues today.