Some said it resembled Walter Mamabolo’s bravado and never-say-die attitude, as people sang and ululated in celebration of the soccer champ's “life well lived". The service was held in a packed Mamelodi West community hall and was graced with former soccer legends and influential personalities, including Deputy Judge President Aubrey Ledwaba, former ambassador Moses Chikane, soccer maestro Walter Kutumela and community leader Pasty Malefo.  Mamabolo was a well-known goalkeeper in the 80s for Mamelodi United FC and later worked for himself selling music DVDs and CDs.  Speakers told of his undying love for football, which he held until his last breath. Mamabolo fell ill, but despite his illness, his larger-than-life personality ensured that community members left his presence uplifted by his attitude.  The father of three died in his sleep at his family home in Section D1 Mamelodi West last Thursday. Close friend Jonny Leshika served as programme director and kept things light joking throughout the service.  “Walter was a happy chap so please don’t wear long and sad faces. We are here to celebrate the life of a champion who enjoyed life to the fullest,” said Leshika. Former actress and now advocate Nakedi Ribane described Mamabolo as a go-getter who was always upbeat. “I sometimes wondered where he got all the energy. There was never a dull day with 'Ntwana',” she said.  Ribane also praised Mamabolo for being a great writer. “He always wrote me messages using SMS until I taught him how to use WhatsApp because it was cheaper. I think it was the biggest mistake I ever did because I got WhatsApps all day, every day,” she joked. Friend Masha Ramagoshi said this was exactly what Mamabolo would have wanted at his memorial service. “He was so alive and full of energy. In addition he was obsessed with music.  “I am pretty sure he is smiling and tapping his feet watching us dance at his memorial service.”  Ramagoshi said he had always admired Mamabolo’s love for soccer and ear for music. Another joyful moment was when the electricity went off during the memorial service, and the pastor and crowd celebrated Mamabolo’s life in the dark hall. The funeral will take place tomorrow in Mamelodi.