They claim the two companies have taken a long time to resolve issues and their homes are so damaged they cannot live in them. Phillip and Boitumelo Papane’s house was one of about 30 damaged in the storm on December 30. They say OUTsurance only sent an assessor on January 9, and did not give them a quote for the damage, rather choosing a service provider for them. Days after the storm ravaged their houses, they said “the assessors came here and started speaking among themselves”. “They had already decided who our service provider would be without even giving us a quote or the option of finding our own service providers, or giving us a payout,” said Boitumelo Papane. “As far as I know you are given the option of getting the money (for the damage) and selecting your own service provider,” she said. According to Papane, the family has not had water or electricity since the storm and they sleep in a plastic tent erected by the City of Joburg in their yard after the disaster. A neighbour, who is also still sleeping in a plastic tent in the summer heat of late, said she had not been back to work since the storm. She said she was told by the assessor that an engineer would visit her to see if the house should be rebuilt or demolished. “I can’t do anything and my life is on hold. I can’t go to work who will look after the little that is left of my belongings?,” she said. Attempts to get comment from OUTsurance failed. A  project manager for claims at OUTsurance, declined to comment, referring the reporter to another person who did not respond. Residents blame the Cosmopolitan Housing Company, which constructed the houses, and say they were not up to standard. Two weeks ago, several meetings were held with community members, developers and the banks which had granted bonds for the houses in attempts to find a solution. However, residents have complained that Cosmopolitan did not send a representative. On Friday, Cosmopolitan sent an e-mail to residents in which they  said all required construction and development procedures, processes and approvals were followed and obtained from the relevant authorities (before the construction of the houses began). “The following documents are available on request: approved building plans; NHBRC enrolments; engineer certificates; electrical certificates and occupation certificates,” the e-mail stated. They said their engineers had inspected the damaged houses and found “the structural integrity to be on standard, including the quality and standard of workmanship and materials. 
“They further concluded that this was a natural disaster and that no human action could have prevented it,” the e-mail said. Cosmopolitan’s Jaco Slabbert  confirmed there were some meetings but said they were trying to find a solution that would be best for all the affected parties. “We sympathise with our clients’ loss and damage caused by this natural disaster, especially over the holiday season which should be a peaceful time with family. Cosmopolitan Projects is willing to assist our clients wherever we can,” said Slabbert. With no help forthcoming, the Protea Glen Crisis Committee has met to discuss what to do next. “We as the community have since come up with a few routes we would like to take and are hoping we will be heard and assisted. We are thinking of involving the Consumer Protection Act, taking the developers of the land to court as well as to the public protector because our lives are hold,” a spokesman said. More than 3000 homes were affected by the storm and inspections and evaluations throughout the City put the price at repairs at R186.5million. The question now is who will pay it.