There was pandemonium when current and prospective students who grew impatient while waiting outside the locked gates forced their way on to the Sunnyside campus. The gates had been locked the entire morning, with an occasional announcement that they would be opened soon. Those waiting were told only 20 students would be allowed in at a time to prevent a 
stampede. But hours later, the gates were still closed and the students grew restless. They subsequently jumped over the gates and made their way to the registration hall. While some students scaled the gates, others attempted to break the lock on one of the gates to gain access. However, they stopped as soon as police arrived at the scene. Campus security guards stood and watched helplessly as the action unfolded. On seeing their male counterparts climbing the gates and getting away with it, female students soon followed, despite the fact that some were dressed in skirts and dresses. However, on reaching the hall, the students learnt there were no staff members to assist them with their application and registration. But that did not deter them. They waited inside the hall with the hope that they would be assisted at some point. While sitting and waiting, members of the South African Student Congress told students to go back home and return today. But the EFF Student Command (EFFSC) told those at the hall to stay put as it had negotiated with management to open the ICT Centre to allow students to apply on their own. EFFSC secretary-general Bono Masakona informed students that those who were able to use computers should apply on their own. Masakona dismissed claims that staff members were on campus but afraid to assist students out of fear of being attacked. This, he said, was a political move used by workers while they negotiated for a salary increase with management. “There is no way you can fear your students; so what is happening now is that staff members are equally striking and demanding a salary increase,” the EFF leader added. He said as the governing party at the university, the EFFSC would assist students with application and registration. Though Masakona assured students the system worked without any problems, many left frustrated and uncertain whether their application went through or not. Among those was 18-year-old Katlego Mphahlele, from Mamelodi, who said he applied and filled in all the required details, but had nothing to show that his application was successful. “Though I have applied, there are some things I did not understand what they really required from me. So honestly, I just filled in what I understood with the hope that I can secure a space,” he said. Mphahlele said he opted for a nursing course and hoped Unisa would accept his qualification as the University of Joburg rejected him for not meeting the requirements for a Bachelor of Architectural Science. He said he would return to the university today to check if his application went through or not. The waiting was too much for some, including Betty Skhosana, who said she had woken up in the early hours of the morning to catch a bus from Siyabuswa to Pretoria in order to register for her remaining modules. Skhosana was fast asleep on the floor inside the ICT Centre. She said it was painful that she had to go back home without achieving what she had initially set to do for the day. “These people do not understand that we come from far and we use money to come here. I have no words with what is happening round here. I am tired and hungry and still have to travel for two hours to get home,” she said. Unisa spokesperson Martin Ramotshela said the events of the day (where students couldn't apply or register) were regrettable and should be condemned. He denied allegations that workers did not assist students due to a wage dispute with management. “Workers were unable to access the campus as it was blockaded by the students. No industrial action is taking place as a result of the salary negotiations,” he said. Ramotshela was adamant that the university would be open for business today. ANCYL Tshwane regional chairperson and Tshwane Metro councillor, Lesego Makhubela, took to social media and threatened the movement would shut down the gates of Unisa as a tit-for-tat if management shuts "the doors of learning" in the faces of students.