Principal Suzette Truter said it was a special year for her as it was her first year being principal at the school. Ending off the year with yet another clean slate made it even more great, especially with 91% of her 60 pupils getting admission to university. Being the little jewel in the city, she said the Department of Education gave them statistics that recorded that out of the 155 private schools in the country and 55 schools in the province, they were one of the schools that had scored a 100% pass rate over the years. She hoped that for her second year as principal that they would maintain a 100% pass for the 25th time. “It was a blessed year for me and the school. It was special because it was my first year of being an executive principal. We are so proud of our matrics and we are very happy that we were able to maintain our 100% pass rate,” she said. “For the past 24 years pupils who got admission to university have never scored below 90%. "That is why we are starting right away when schools reopen to motivate our pupils to dream big,” she said. Truter said the recipe for success in her school lay in their beliefs and how they cared for their pupils beyond the classroom. “It was not all rosy for the school because our society is now driven by social media which meant we had to instil morals in the pupils and maintain good relationships, and that was challenging. However, our success has always been connecting with our pupils and our believe in Christ has been our recipe for success all these years. “I always had sleepless nights thinking of them what makes us a successful school is because we care for the pupils' families, we make sure that we go the extra mile. “We were supportive, we knew when to be involved in their lives. When we saw that something was off with a pupil we would address it immediately and we would make an effort to make sure that they were fine. “Our teacher body is very caring because they pushed the girls to perform better than previously to score great results. It is a three-way thing between us, the parents and pupils and that proved to be a great relationship last year,” she said. Giving tips to other schools, she said they must be involved at all times in the lives of their pupils inside and outside the classroom.