This was despite the department recording a decrease in road fatalities in seven provinces, Maswanganyi said. He was delivering the provisional 2017 festive season road safety report in Pretoria. The minister said the department was pleased that the use of campaigns - channelled through social media platforms -  had assisted in surpassing their initial target of reducing road fatalities by 10% and resulted in an 11% decrease. The Western Cape and the North West recorded an increase in fatalities by 7% and 11% respectively, he said. Limpopo recorded the highest reduction in fatalities, followed closely by the Free State and KwaZulu-Natal. He spoke about statistics that compared the periods between December 1  to January 9 of the 2016/17 and 2017/18 years, saying there was a disturbing increase in the number of pedestrian fatalities within a number of municipal boundaries, including Tshwane, Ekurhuleni, Joburg, Thabo Mofutsanyane and eThekwini. The Nkangala, Cape Town, Ehlanzeni and Capricorn municipalities had also shown an increase in pedestrian deaths. According to the report, 1676 deaths were recorded during the 2017/18 period as opposed to the previous year, when 1875 fatalities were recorded. Despite that, fatalities among pedestrians had increased from 34% to 37%, while driver fatalities also went up from 23% to 27%. Maswanganyi also indicated that despite the increases, there had been a decline in passenger fatalities from 41% to 35%. Fatalities were said to be most prevalent among young drivers, aged between 25 and 34, whereas drivers between 35 and 49 and showed a decline. “A significant decline was noted among youthful pedestrians, but there was a disturbing increase among those aged 35 to 44.” Maswanganyi added: “All the efforts that we put into promoting safe road usage have given us an improved picture during this recent festive season holiday period.” There was also an indication that there had been improved compliance to warnings against drinking and driving, with a decline in arrests for the violation. According to Maswanganyi, 5943 arrests were made for drunk driving for the 2016/17 period, against 
3301 this past festive season. “We’re not interested in the statistics but in the lives of people. Whether it is 1000 or one life, it is still too many. People need to understand the impact and severity of losing a loved one in an accident.” A warning was also sent to citizens who assaulted traffic officers as witnessed in videos circulating on social media. Maswanganyi said: “Those who assault or kill officers can’t and won’t be tolerated. If we don’t deal with this immediately it will become a trend. If officers don’t feel safe what then of the citizens?” With 2018 being declared “The Year of Improved Road Safety in South Africa”, a stern warning was also sent to testing stations issuing licences fraudulently. To this effect, during a raid of three privately owned vehicle testing stations across Gauteng, 10 examiners were arrested on allegations of issuing roadworthy certificates to vehicles they had never examined. The transport minister announced that to ensure all was above board, an audit of all vehicle testing centres and driver and learner testing centres would be conducted by the department. He said the audit would run parallel to investigations being undertaken by the Special Investigation Unit.