This was announced at a media briefing held in Parktown yesterday. Family member Lesetja Masekela said fans would be able to show their support at the various remembrance activities that would be taking place from today until next Thursday. Sal Masekela, Hugh’s son, said the week ahead would represent a time for everyone to say their final goodbyes. He said the events would be for the public to share their memories of Bra Hugh. The first event will be the Hugh Masekela Heritage Park memorial - an audiovisual celebration of the trumpeter’s life that will chronicle six decades of him as an artist and social activist. The temporary centre will be up until February 1 at Zoo Lake. The celebration will use visuals, footage and audio to reflect back on the legend’s life. At the Sankopano Centre in Alexandra today from 1pm, the Heitada Alex! - Going Home commemoration will be held in honour of Masekela. “Alex is the home where my father’s musical journey began. Friends, the artistic community and family will share their memories of him there,” Sal said. The final public tribute will be the Hugh Masekela memorial, a musical celebration of his life that will feature mainly artists he has collaborated with. “We are going to have an incredible party on Sunday and if you don’t come ready to dance and sing then you probably shouldn’t attend.” The celebration will take place on Sunday at the University of Johannesburg’s Soweto campus from 12pm. “As for the final funeral service for the family, relatives and close friends - that’s going to be a private event and we will be announcing that at another time.” Sal said the outpouring of love that the family had received was breathtaking. It was amazing to see how - in a world where news is disposable and it's always on to the next thing - tributes were continuing to pour in. Oncologist Dr Yastira Ramda took care of Masekela until his last day. “I saw him until the end. He passed away with a condition known as metastatic prostate cancer. He was such a strong minded, full of life individual. “He really was a true inspiration to all cancer patients; he fought hard until the end. He had a very strong message to the public and all men: Don’t ignore symptoms, if you find something, get tested and get treated. Go well my dear person, you will immensely be missed,” said Ramdas.