Mahlangu desperately sought to absolve herself of any wrongdoing as she made her much-anticipated appearance before the Life Esidimeni alternative dispute resolution hearing yesterday. Mahlangu claimed that former head of department Dr Tiego Selebano and former head of mental health Dr Makgabo Manamela misled her and never informed her about problems in implementing the project. Mahlangu claimed that because she was a politician she was not privy to information regarding the project. “It’s not possible for a politician to know every correspondence that comes to their desk,” she said. The former MEC even shed some tears when she apologised to the families of the victims that packed The Emoyeni Conference Centre, the venue for the hearings. “The patients transfer project was the most painful thing to ever happen to the country’s healthcare system. I want to send my sincere condolences to the families who lost their loved ones,” said Mahlangu. She denied being negligent but said her department had “good intentions”. The tears and pleas for forgiveness appeared to anger the families who heckled her as she read through her prepared statement. “We don’t care; don’t cry, we hope you tell the truth,” said one family member. Security was tight outside the venue. The gates were locked. Saftu and TAC members protested outside, with some screaming: “Qedani you are a murderer”. Mahlangu resigned last year just before the release of Health Ombudsman Dr Malegapuru Makgoba’s report into the death of over 100 people when they were moved from Life Esidimeni facilities to various  NGOs. Mahlangu said Gauteng Premier David Makhura knew as early as 2015 about the mental health project. Asked who made the decision to terminate the Life Esidimeni contract, Mahlangu said: “It was a collective decision. In government, there is never an individual decision”. She said that as health professionals, she believed Selebano and Manamela had everything under control. “I had no reason to doubt their professional conduct.” Asked why the two would mislead her, she said: “I really don’t know.”  She said she was shocked that they had lied to her. When asked about giving the legislature untrue information, Mahlangu insisted that all the information she received was from Manamela and Selebano. The two former managers resigned last week. In their testimonies last year, they said they were following Mahlangu’s orders. They also talked about a strained relationship in which they couldn’t defy her orders. Mahlangu insisted that Selebano never informed her about problems implementing the project. Instead she was made aware when the media started asking questions. She also said she had always been open to speaking to affected family members. She had given out her personal cellphone number to them but never received any calls from them. Mahlangu claimed patients from Life Esidimeni taken to Sterk-fontein Hospital were already malnourished and had to be transferred to Kalafong Hospital for medical care. It was an emotional day for families who arrived wearing T-shirts depicting their loved ones. During the breaks, they joined members of Saftu and TAC who protested outside the venue's gates. Family members held white crosses as symbols of those who died. The hearing continues 
tomorrow.