On December 8 last year, the Gauteng High Court, Pretoria, set aside the appointment of current NDPP Shaun Abrahams and ordered that he vacate his post. It also ordered that his predecessor Mxolisi Nxasana pay back a R17million “golden handshake”. Judge Dunstan Mlambo also ordered that Zuma’s deputy, Cyril Ramaphosa appoint the next NDPP because Zuma was conflicted. In his appeal, filed with the court yesterday, Zuma’s lawyers argue that the court had erred in holding the view that he was not able to perform his role as president when it came to the appointment of the NDPP while he was able to perform other functions. This, his lawyers argued, was not authorised by the constitution. And as had been argued even before the case was appealed against, Zuma’s lawyers said the judgment effectively made it constitutionally permissible to have two presidents in South Africa, both exercising presidential powers. Zuma’s appeal comes on the same day as Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane released the terms of reference into the state of capture commission requested by her predecessor, Thuli Madonsela, but said the failure to properly resource her office would have a detrimental effect on investigations into state capture. She blamed Parliament for not properly resourcing her office, despite the vital watchdog role it plays. "In the current financial year, despite the fact that I have requested and motivated for a budget of at least R1billion, the National Treasury has cut this institution’s budget by R8million,” she said. “As a result and considering the nature of the issues to be traversed and available resources, my (office) will not be able to properly investigate all the allegations of state capture, as reported after the publication of the report.” Last month the High Court rejected Zuma’s bid to have Madonsela’s recommendations on the state of capture inquiry set aside. The court instructed the president to establish an inquiry into state capture within 30 days. Last week Zuma announced the establishment of the commission to be headed by Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo. Mkhwebane then asked for the terms of reference to be expanded and the focus broadened to look at state capture in general and not specifically the relationship between the president, his family and the Guptas. In her statement yesterday she said that this was a suggestion and not a recommendation. Yesterday she also sought to clarify an earlier statement that drew widespread criticism. “The publication of the statement was intended to suggest that all related allegations of state capture are investigated by the commission and that the commission’s work is not limited to those identified for investigation in the state of capture report,” she said. She has called for a two-phase commission that will first deal with issues investigated in the state of capture report and also focus on those issues identified and reserved for the next phase of investigation in the report within 90 days. She said the second phase will focus on Eskom - how Brian Molefe was re-appointed as the chief executive and the role that Minister Lynne Brown played in the re-appointment. See Page 4