This was the attitude and message of inspiration by pupils from Tebogwana Secondary school in Ga-Rankuwa, north of the city, sent out to the new cohorts of matrics for 2018. The school managed to come out tops as one of the best performing public schools in the city, achieving an overall pass mark of 92.4%. The school boasted an impressive 36 Bachelor passes, 59 for diploma entries and 19 pupils who received higher certificates. Lerato Ntseke, the overall top performer from the school, said that although the exams were stressful she pushed herself not to get distracted by watching TV or being on social media platforms. Lerato said that while she was not confident she would do so well in the exams, her main goal was to ensure that pupils realised that nothing was out of reach. She said: “There is really nothing you can’t achieve or are not smart enough for. You just have to put in the work. “I had a special goal: to ensure that the top learner is not just the headgirl or headboy.  "I wanted to show them you could be any ordinary student and still come out on top and I am glad I did just that,” Lerato added. Sarah Kukuni said that although she had come in second with three distinctions, she was disappointed as she had hoped to do better. Sarah said she missed her fourth distinction by 2%, even though she had started preparing while still doing Grade 11. “Aside from the disappointment I want other learners to know that it doesn’t matter if you come from a poor school or background. All that matters is what you tell yourself and what you want in life,” she said. “Yes, we have to sacrifice a little bit more but the rewards are that much sweeter as I know where I want to be,” Sarah added. Apart from celebrating the fruits of their hard work, 37 of the school's top performers were awarded financial aid bursaries by Ditshimega Projects and Training company. The company’s director, Sakkie Ranta, said that having come from the same school, he wanted to plough back into the community he lived and worked in. He said the company contributed R1.5million to schools around the community, especially those that did well. “This is an emotional moment for me as a former learner, and it makes me so happy that I will be able to demonstrate to our children what a good role model is not just someone who has distanced themselves from their communities' plight after they managed to make something of themselves.” Tshwane MMC for Environmental Affairs Michael Mkhari was at the event. He applauded the company for its invaluable contribution. He urged other companies to assist the government in ensuring all children received quality education and better job opportunities. The top three pupils received R55000, R42000 and R40000 respectively. Other pupils who achieved a bachelors pass were not left out of the celebrations as the company awarded them R30000 and R25000 each to those between 4th place and 10th. Matriculants from 11th place up to 20th were granted R7000, from 21st to 30th R6000 in assistance, and from 31st to 37th the pupils were given R5000 to go towards their educational needs.