Yesterday the government announced that a special funeral committee had been established to ensure that Bra Willie, as he was affectionately known, would have a proper send-off that befitted his dynamic personality. This was announced by Mandla Langa, who is part of the co-ordinating committee for the funeral. Director-General for the Department of Arts and Culture, Vusumuzi Mkhize, said Arts and Culture Minister Nathi Mthethwa and Gauteng Premier David Makhura had engaged with the family of Kgositsile to discuss the request for a special funeral from President Jacob Zuma.  “On hearing of the sad passing of the professor, (Mthethwa and Makhura) engaged with his family to have a special funeral declared, due to the enormous contribution he made to society.  “A letter was written to the president requesting a special funeral befitting a person of his stature,” said Mkhize. Upon consulting with his family, Zuma proposed that he be accorded a special official funeral. Langa said: “In the 79 years of his life, Struggle stalwart Kgositsile touched the lives of many through his poetry and political activism. In his decades of exile, Kgositsile continued to fight injustices through his poetry, teachings and publications. In his lifetime, he mentored a countless number of cultural practitioners, academics and political activists.” Leading to his burial, Kgositsile’s life will be celebrated every day between 6pm and 7pm at the family home in Killarney. And tributes of his life have even been celebrated by various activists from as far afield as New York since last Saturday. Tomorrow, a memorial service in his honour will be held by the John Nkadimeng Branch at Houghton Primary School at 5.30pm. Another one will be held at the Johannesburg City Hall on January 11. And another one will be at the Market Theatre in Newtown at 12pm on January 12. Langa said the funeral cortege would leave the family home in Diepkloof at 7am on January 16 and proceed to Marks Park, where a service would start at 9am. The burial would take place at West Park Cemetery in Johannesburg. The president ordered that all national flags be flown at half-mast at every flag station in the country on the day of his funeral.  Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa will deliver the eulogy on behalf of the Presidency and the people of South Africa at the funeral. The Department of Arts and Culture and family said the public was welcome to attend all events, including the funeral, and they welcomed messages of condolences, flowers and eulogies from political activists and organisations, friends of the arts, civil society, the academia locally and people across the globe.