This is according to Chief Mlondolozi, as he is known, during an event hosted in Mamelodi yesterday for the youth shortly before the new school year starts. The first steps to uplift the youth were taken during the launch of the National House of Traditional Leaders Foundation’s programme #BackToSchool at the Mamelodi West Central Grounds yesterday. Charity Mabaso, co-ordinator of the programme, said the various NGOs around the township, businesses and traditional leaders all came together to unite the community and remove children from 
the streets.  Mabaso said they wanted the programme to support school-going children by collecting old uniforms to assist those who were 
disadvantaged. “Children belong to the society and as such we wanted to come together to motivate them to not give up even when they fail or don’t perform as well. Let's encourage them that this is not the end,” Mabaso added. She said what was most important was that they wanted to keep the youth away from getting involved in criminal activities and turning to drugs in their free time. Mabaso said what was crucial in starting a foundation of this nature was to ensure that youngsters had access to career guidance as many of them ended up doing the wrong subjects and eventually dropping out when they got to universities. “Our children need to channel the energy they have into something positive so they would not be hanging around shops and eventually being led into a world of drugs.” Reintroducing chiefs and traditional leaders into communities will, according to Mabaso, help to bring back ubuntu that so many communities had lost. Youngsters from around the community were entertained by local soapie favourites; Skeem Saam’s Macks Papo who plays Marothi as well as Nimza. Mamelodi Sundowns legends and a fitness team also got them involved in aerobics, dancing and different sporting codes such as netball and soccer. Mamelodi Sundowns star, “Go” Mabusela, also came to encourage the children from his community on the positive impact of positive recreational activities. “Mamelodi has been overrun with drugs and crime and we want to ensure that every school holiday there are events like these," Mabusela said. "Even if we save two to three kids it is better than not trying at all.” “Sport is the key thing, it unites and assists people to have aspirations in life because not all children are good at school. And if we as legends don’t help the community we represent then who will?” Mabusela added. Chief Mlondolozi said the leaders would use the foundation to go as far as it takes to get donations to help the youth. Those interested in making donations are urged to drop off old items - especially school clothes  - at a box in Denlyn Mall in Mamelodi or to contact the foundation.