In Australia, as in South Africa, recreational use remains illegal. But, in Australia, the government hopes domestic medicinal use, legalised last year, and exports will boost production.  South Africa took a tentative step forward last year, thanks to a number of court cases. Western Cape High Court Judge Dennis Davis ruled that it was an infringement to ban the recreational use of dagga by adults within the privacy of their homes.  This means that the police cannot swoop on those in possession of or using dagga within the confines of their own homes.  Additionally, the court ordered Parliament to amend sections of the Drug Trafficking Act and the Medicines Control Act within 24 months. Then, in August, Julian Stobbs, 52, and Myrtle Clarke, 45, - in what was called the “Trial of the Plant” - appeared in the Gauteng High Court, Pretoria, in a bid to evade prosecution and legalise the private use of dagga.  This follows their arrest in 2010 for growing and using their own dagga. The high court has placed their criminal trial on hold, pending the outcome of their constitutional 
challenge. The pair - through their fundraiser, Fields of Green for All, offered thousands of pages of evidence. These were collected over seven years from a host of local and international experts, on the benefits of legalising dagga use. Kicking off the evidence in the case was Professor David Nutt, the head of neuropsychopharmacology at Imperial College in the UK. He argued that the prohibition on dagga provided the “gateway to harder drug use”. Nutt, a specialist in the research of drugs and their effects on the brain, stood by his 20 years of research that the harm of dagga was relatively low.  He also did not believe those who used the drug should face criminal sanction and punishment as was the case with hard drugs. He compared it to tobacco use, saying it was irrational for the state to ban one substance with low harm, while at the same time almost encouraging the use of another more harmful substance.  He was referring to tobacco which was addictive and a health burden, and yet was still legal. He also compared it to alcohol, and its potentially devastating impact, including death. By comparison, he said he did not know of a death caused directly by dagga use.  As such, he stressed that due to the relatively lower danger dagga posed, the state had the moral obligation to allow people to use it. He used the Netherlands as an example and said legalisation of dagga had a positive impact, as government could keep recreational users away from the black market where they ran the risk of being exposed to harder drugs such as heroin, crystal meth and cocaine, to name a few. Due to testify on the medicinal benefits of dagga was Professir Donald Abrams, chief of the haematology-oncology division at San Francisco General Hospital.  His work is focused on the use of dagga to assist in the management of  HIV-associated ailments.  Dagga is also known to have benefited patients with other illness such as cancer. Meanwhile, Craig Paterson, testified how the prohibition of dagga in South Africa in the late 1800s was racist and irrational, claiming it was banned by white lawmakers because it was mostly enjoyed by blacks. The prohibition did not find ground in reason or rationality, science or good law-making, but rather in racism, irrationality poor politics and non-science, he argued. He too pointed to the evidence of the danger of alcohol in South Africa, which outweighed that of dagga. Traditional healers also joined in the call for the legalisation of dagga, saying they had used it to good effect for years. Demonstrating outside court the traditional healer associations spoke of how the continued criminalisation of the plant made it difficult to assist people, while also exposing them to being criminally charged for possession of the drug. On the opposing side, a group of users calling themselves the Concerned Young People of South, made their presence felt outside the high court during the trial. They decry the legalisation of the drug as they allege it was the start that led to substance abuse, and it could destroy the future of poor communities already reeling under the effects of drug abuse. On this side too is Gauteng Social Development MEC Nandi Mayathula-Khoza who does not want to see dagga legalised. Neither does Doctors for Life who have argued that dagga is harmful to individuals and society. Following lengthy representations the court case was postponed to this year, while Stobbs and Clarke also appeared most recently as intervening parties to formally argue their case in the Constitutional Court. Should the court rule in favour of the legalisation of dagga, Parliament will have to make the necessary amendments to the legislation to enable it. Failing which we can expect to see the "dagga couple" back in court in Pretoria later this year.  The debate, for and against legalisation, is far from over yet. Pretoria News