Pretoria - Police and universities across the city have cautioned students to remain vigilant of fraudsters and scammers during the frenzy of looking for last spaces in courses and accommodation. Police spokesperson Brigadier Mathapelo Peters said that although there had been no recent reports of students being scammed, police had over the years witnessed numerous incidents reported during this time of the year. Peters said fraudsters would approach students during the registration period posing as university personnel promising students shortcuts to getting their things sorted out. However, she said that with the transition to online registration by many universities this had made things more difficult for criminals. But the thugs remain undeterred and were looking for other ways to scam prospective students. Peters said: “Students need to be extra vigilant and not just trust anyone when looking for accommodation, particularly female students who could be exposed to being raped. “If they take everything someone offers them they are exposing themselves not only to being vulnerable to crime but also to losing the money they had saved up for accommodation and the possibility of being stranded,” she added. Police warned students not to simply send EFT payments into private bank accounts advertised on the internet. This was because in most of the cases the students who had viewed an advert on-line contacted the person, deposited money and never heard from the person again. Students were encouraged to verify the credentials of the persons advertising any private accommodation and the legitimacy of the property advertised. In the likelihood that students or members of the public came across bogus advertisements, they were asked to report the matter to the police so that the matter could be investigated. Willa de Ruyter, TUT spokesperson, said registration for accommodation at the university would be starting on Monday. However, at this stage De Ruyter said all residence spaces had been reserved and spaces not filled would have to be checked at the end of the residence registration period which ends on January 26. She said: “If there are open spaces left they will be filled with applications on the waiting list. “So in essence the TUT residences are full and we would not like to indicate to the broader population that there are still spaces available.” The remaining open spaces are filled by new students who applied and are on the waiting list. As from February 5, students without accommodation are advised to report to TUT’s residence administration offices available on each campus and will be referred to accredited private student accommodation. “TUT started a process of accrediting suitable private student accommodation from last year. Students who depend on donor funding for the payment of such accommodation must be referred by the TUT Residence Admini- stration offices to such accommodation,” she said. University of Pretoria spokesperson Rikus Delport said the university had 29 residences available for undergraduate and post-graduate students. He said that with the addition of five privately-owned leased residences across the city the university could accommodate close to 10000 students. Hatfield Square, Urban Nest, Eastwood Village, Festival Edge and The Fields form part of the total of 34 buildings earmarked by the university to accommodate students. Delport said that most of the spaces had already been filled but there were still some limited spaces available at some of the residences. Pretoria News