The party’s supporters yesterday protested in front of the Mall of Africa H&M store in Midrand, Gauteng. South African actress Pearl Thusi took to Twitter to slam the actions of the party and AfriForum deputy head Ernst Roets announced that they would lay criminal charges of incitement to public violence against Julius Malema Floyd Shivambu and Dr Mbuyiseni Ndlozi of the EFF At the weekend, EFF members stormed six of the Swedish retailer’s stores in Pretoria, Joburg and Cape Town, breaking mirrors and pushing over shop mannequins. The party was protesting against a racist advert published by the Swedish retailer. It showed photos of an African child wearing a hoodie with the phrase “Coolest Monkey in the Jungle”, contrary to the one worn by a white child with the words “Survival Expert”. Thusi engaged with Ndlozi on Twitter where she referred to the measures taken by the EFF as misrepresenting South Africans. “Instead of fighting at their level you’re just going to vandalise stores and establishments? Spread violence and fear? Oh, ok. Just misrepresent us all as savages then,” Thusi tweeted. Yesterday, EFF spokesperson Ndlozi responded to Thusi. “Pearl is an ANC mascot who believes blacks with stones fighting oppression are savages. Of course, it would be a waste of breath to try to educate her about adopting the language of the oppressor to describe herself,” said Ndlozi. The Ahmed Kathrada Foundation is considering whether to meet with the company after writing a letter to it expressing outrage over the racist advert. The letter was sent to H&M’s global headquarters and to its local offices. “It is of serious concern that your company published the advert without considering the historical context of how the word and image of a 'monkey' has been used to racially demean black people for generations,” the letter stated. The foundation also said this was not the first time that H&M had come under scrutiny with regards to its response to racial insensitivity. In 2015, the company came under criticism from a social media user for not featuring black models following the opening of its stores in South Africa. The company’s response via Twitter implied that white models were featured to create a "positive image". “These two incidents are perhaps indicative of the type of ignorance that continues to prevail around issues related to race, perhaps not only at H&M, but in the broader advertising sector and in society in general,” said the foundation’s executive director, Neeshan Balton. H&M has reportedly closed some of its stores in the country, but employees of the company in Cape Town said their stores are operating normally and they have not received communication indicating that the store will be closed. Meanwhile, the DA said it will write to the International Chamber of Commerce (ICC) to lodge an official complaint against H&M. The party said the retail giant has violated the ICC’s marketing guidelines. “It is clear that H&M has violated the ICC’s code of advertising with its racially-discriminatory advert. We therefore request that the ICC, as the foremost retail authority, fully investigate this incident and institute appropriate sanctions once an investigation has been completed,” said the party’s national spokesperson, Refiloe Ntsekhe. The police said they will study the CCTV footage of the weekend protests to hold those responsible to account. The South African Chamber of Commerce and Industry has also condemned the advert but criticised the manner in which the EFF responded. South African Chamber of Commerce chief executive, Alan Mukoki, said the actions taken by the party are not in line with the provisions of the constitution. “The right to protest does not protect the right to perpetuate violence against those we disagree with. We are a country based on fundamental democratic principles. When we have an issue, like now with the H&M advert, we need to proceed in line with the constitutional arrangements, whether to file a court case or a complaint to the Human Rights Commission,” said Alan. He said H&M is not a member of the organisation thus it will not be taking any action against the retail store. He, however, said the organisation would write to H&M and condemn the advert.