“But my aunt said I should try my luck since President Jacob Zuma announced fee-free higher education,” Chabangu said. She was among those standing in queue for late applications at Unisa. Unlike on Monday when chaos erupted among the scores of would-be students wanting to register, yesterday went off without a hitch. Originally from Bushbuckridge, the 17-year-old said were it not for the announcement of fee-free higher education, she would not have applied to any university as both her parents were unemployed. She was amid the chaos on Monday at the Sunnyside campus when students jumped over the gates to access the premises so they could register or apply. There was drama on Monday when scores of students were unable to apply or register for the new academic year. Hundreds of current and prospective students grew impatient as they waited outside the locked gates of the university listening to the occasional announcement that they would open soon. But yesterday Chabangu arrived at around 8am to check if the situation had improved. She said: “When I got here I found that everything was in order unlike yesterday (Monday). I even regretted not waking up a bit early, but I guess I did not want to be disappointed as I was on the first day.” Like many who attempted to apply online at the university’s ICT centre on Monday, she failed 
dismally. Chabangu said she moved in with her aunt at Nellmapius in order to sort out her Unisa application as Bushbuckridge was too far away. She said she was going to apply for a teaching course and hoped to be accepted. Keabetswe Mabena, 19, and her mother, Priscilla Tema, from Siyabuswa, were also in the same queue. They said they left home at around 4am hoping to be first in line. Mabena said she applied for LLB law and social work at the University of Joburg, but was rejected. Due to there being two queues -one for registration and the other for application - those in the application queue complained theirs was not moving. “We have been standing here since morning, but they are only assisting those here for registration. Maybe that is because we are applying late,” Tema said. She said they had even considered going to the University of Limpopo. However, others were pleased that everything was up and running without any disruptions. Among those who left the campus happy were Peter Kumalo, who was done with his registration by 9am. He said: “Everything went smooth and I even got my student card today.”