The death of Scandal! veteran actor Sandy Mokwena on Wednesday has added to the prevailing deep mourning. Mokwena, known for his popular role as Bra Eddie Khumalo, started acting on Scandal! in 2005 when the first episode aired. He has also appeared on Generations, Soul City, Yizo Yizo, Juice For All and Going Up. The 68-year-old actor died from natural causes and according to Scandal! publicist Michael Pocock, the family has requested that their space be respected for now. He was famous for his role in Scandal! as a well-respected journalist for The Voice newspaper. He played the part of a father, friend, husband and an inspiration to everyone he crossed paths with, in the daily soapie. Those who worked closely with the veteran actor mourned his death as a big loss to the arts industry. Mapaseka Koetle, who plays Dintle in the soapie, tweeted that she learnt a lot from him. “Rest in peace bra Sandy, I learnt a lot from you. Rest in peace, daddy.” Actress and presenter Dineo Moeketsi, whose time was short-lived on Scandal!, was also touched by “Bra Eddie’s” death. “My time at Scandal! was made beautiful by Ntate Sandy Mokwena. He didn't want me to cry on my last day there and said we'd meet again. O ntaetse sentle (you bade me farewell properly) and were so encouraging of my move. Until we meet again, Papa. Struggling to take it in,” she tweeted. Director and film-maker Mmabatho Montsho said she was constantly encouraged by him. “Bra Sandy held my hand when I started directing at @etvScandal. He'd call me over to his table during breakfast and say 'keep your head up, you're doing good’. Eish RIP #SandyMokwena,” she wrote. Masasa Mbangeni, who played therole of ruthless Thembeka Shezi, posted the late actor's picture, captioned Madlomo2. “Here, 2018 is a lot. Tata Sandy was a father to many of us on set. Strict, a great sense of humour and always ready with advice on how to navigate this industry. He'd show me pictures of his from Ipi Ntombi days and I loved hearing about his travels and what they got up to. “I'm not surprised that Bra Sandy was working last week even when he was sick. "That was him, ‘the show must go on’ kind of guy. Rest In Peace Papa,” Mbangeni wrote. Co-star Kagiso Modupe, who was as close to “Bra Eddie” as a son, also poured his heart out on Instagram. “You held my hand through it all. Step by step you guided me. And only now when you finally let go I realise that you’ve allowed me to walk by myself all along. What a father and mentor you are.”