Justice Mogoeng was speaking to Independent Media on the sidelines of the Conference of Constitutional Jurisdictions of Africa’s 9th Session of the Executive Bureau in Zimbali, north of Durban, yesterday. Justice Mogoeng said the chairperson of the commission, Deputy Justice Raymond Zondo, had made it clear that he was not aware of any commission tasked with investigating something as serious as the investigation into corruption and state capture that was able to complete its mandate within six months. “He indicated that six months might be just too short a period to enable this commission of inquiry to be able to execute this mammoth task to its completion.” Justice Mogoeng said President Jacob Zuma should have sought legal advice to understand his mandate as the statutory authority of the constitution to determine whether the terms of reference in the commission into state capture are narrowed or broadened. “All I know is that the constitutional responsibility to determine the terms of reference rests with the president as the constitutional statutory authority that has to determine the terms of reference. It is neither for the chief justice not for the chairperson of the commission to determine the terms of reference.” He added that was not aware if Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane had been approached to assist with determining the terms of 
reference. Mkhwebane suggested that the terms of reference be broadened. “I would imagine that in the process of determining the terms of reference, it is open for the president to approach anybody who he thinks has the expertise to assist to contribute in shaping up the terms of reference approximately,” Justice Mogoeng said. He added that the critical importance of the commission was that it would be seized with a responsibility to investigate any alleged corruption and state capture.
“The outcome is not known. People may be found to have been involved in corrupt activities or they may be cleared of any involvement in corrupt activities,” he said. The terms of reference have been a contentious issue with criticism levelled against those, including Mkhwebane, who have called for them to be broadened and not only focus on former public protector Thuli Madonsela’s report into state capture. However, Justice Mogoeng said with Zuma aware of Madonsela’s report, and with the benefit of legal advice he would know what his powers in relation to the appointment of the inquiry and the determination of the terms of reference were. “Based on that legal advice I’m sure he knows what his powers in relation to the appointment of the commission and the determination of the terms of reference are,” he said.