Yesterday, the co-operative governance and traditional affairs portfolio committee noted with concern the abuse of media outlets such as television slots to advertise the miracle claims. The miracle claims also appear on leaflets, posters and advertisements. The MPs said Icasa should come to the party and show some teeth. “If there is no scientific evidence, no claims must be made on adverts be it a sticker, poster or leaflet,” the DA’s Kevin Mileham said. “Adverts must be evidence-based.” Committee chairperson Richard Mdakane agreed that “Icasa must regulate those things”. Mileham and Mdakane made the comments when the Cogta committee met to consider a draft report by the CRL commission that probed the commercialisation of religion and abuse of people’s belief system. The commission found there was a high death toll of worshippers using faith products and defaulting on their chronic medication amid miracle claims to heal them. It also found unconventional preaching methods such as eating grass and drinking petrol by 
worshippers. “There is a lack of monitoring and peer review mechanisms like other professions,” the commission said. Religion should not be commercialised as most denominations have been self-regulated and that has worked well for them, it added. The commission also found a lack of separation between religious entities and business activities. CRL Commission deputy chairperson Professor David Mosoma said miracle claims in advertisements should be backed up. “You cant advertise something that is blatantly unprovable,” Mosoma said. The ANC's Amos Masondo said: “They make these claims of water healing illnesses every day on TV shows." Masondo also said newspapers were used to place advertisements for so-called faith healers claiming they could bring back long-lost lovers. The committee wants the commission to hold a national consultative conference to tackle some of the challenges faced in the religious sector. “We must take advice when society says there is a problem in the sector. "If we do not address the problem now, in 20 years' time you will find it worse,” he said. However, the commission complained about financial constraints, saying it would need to raise funds. CRL Commission chairperson Thoko Mkhwanazi-Xaluva suggested that Parliament source the funds.