But it’s also because the Chinese government has recently imposed quality restrictions on the import of recyclable materials in an attempt to address domestic concerns over pollution and public health. Beijing’s move in effect closes down the export of recyclable plastics, paper and other materials from the world’s richest countries. The UK, Europe, US, Australia and others have long been dependent on China to take the poor quality materials they collect and do not have the infrastructure or capacity to use themselves. Until more recycling plants are built to deal with it domestically, the UK faces a build-up of plastic waste. Other countries in Asia will continue to accept some of the lower quality materials, but this is a temporary fix. Sending plastic to India, Vietnam or Cambodia instead of China may limit the amount that has to be stored, placed in landfills or burnt in the UK, but does nothing to reduce the overall amount. We cannot simply rely on the actions of concerned individuals. What’s needed goes beyond reusing plastic water bottles, stopping using plastic drinking straws and taking reusable bags to the supermarket. Here are a few suggestions: Recycle quality - not just quantity Recycling targets tend to focus on quantity, but the quality of materials collected is as important. Recycling “quality” refers to how clean and well sorted materials are. If the UK improved the quality of the material collected for recycling, it could still be sent to China. This may take the form of reworked household collections, comprehensive collections from business premises, or a revival of the “deposit and return” schemes that once covered glass bottles and today could also include plastic bottles, drinks cans or coffee cups. Stop collecting stuff for the sake of it Recycling collections from households are often criticised for being inconsistent and confusing. It is important to remember that local authorities do not themselves “recycle”. They collect waste and, separately, materials like glass bottles or cardboard boxes which are suitable for recycling. After they have been collected these separated materials become secondary raw materials, which are only truly recycled when they are actually made into something else. If the infrastructure to sort certain items or materials does not exist locally (as with some crisp packets, polystyrene take-away boxes or coffee cups) it’s only sensible for those not to be collected. Boost demand for recycled plastic Countries like the UK need to develop their own demand for recycled material. This means supporting manufacturers to develop technology that can use it where possible. Alternatively, government could impose mandatory recycled content for various plastic products. Coca Cola, for instance, has announced that by 2020 its bottles will contain 50% recycled material. It’s a step in the right direction, but why only 50%? If this target was increased the scale of production means there would be a huge impact. Producers must be held responsible Increase producer responsibility for the plastic products they place on the market. Existing arrangements could be reformed so that they encourage recyclability to be built in at the design stage, while incentivising the maximum use of recycled content. Regulations could tax or ban the use of non-recyclable products or those that use particularly difficult materials, and they could ban some single use plastic products (France has already done this). While there is a focus on plastics, people should learn more about their purchasing decisions and recycling actions. - The Conversation  *  Cole is a research fellow in architecture, design and the built environment at Nottingham Trent University