Makaneta said fierce political contestation for positions must be avoided at all costs to end instability in the party. His stance was expressed in a letter to new ANC secretary-general Ace Magashule, ahead of the upcoming regional conference, likely to be held towards the end of March. He said his concern was based on the growing number of people emerging as contestants for the chairperson position. “People are preoccupied with the leadership positions and, as you may know, this type of approach will have a negative impact on the ability of the region to unite its members. As you know leadership battle often turn ugly,” he said. The concern was raised in the light of the news that the chairperson position would be contested by four senior party members, who included incumbent regional deputy chairperson and ANC caucus leader in council Mapiti Matsena, and Dr Kgosi Maepa. Ramokgopa will not be available to serve in the region because he has ambitions to serve at provincial level, according to party insiders. Regional secretary Paul Mojapelo was one of the persons tipped for the chairperson position, according to lobbyists at different branches. Former parliamentarian, Zweli Mohlala, who was also a councillor under Ramokgopa’s stewardship, is also in the running for the 
position. Matsena previously declined to comment on whether he would accept a nomination for the position of a chairperson, saying his focus was on uniting the party. Mojapelo said: “I have not spoken to branches. There is no glorifying leader who can be a leader of the ANC without the branches nomination. "The truth is that the branches of the ANC are still going to sit. I will consider that when the time comes.” Makaneta defended his position, saying the approach would demonstrate unity among branches and could boost the party's “reclaim Tshwane” campaign in 2021. According to him, failure to avoid a contest for positions could result in the party failing to secure power from the DA. Makaneta’s position was however criticised for being “anti-ANC” by Mojapelo and party spokesperson Teboho Joala. Joala said Makaneta’s utterances were shocking because they went against the spirit of democracy. “We have our own internal structures and processes as the ANC in Tshwane. We have the constitution and, from time to time, our structures in provincial and national offices come up with processes when we approach certain events in our calendar,” he said. Joala said the region would have had its conference last year but it was instructed by the then secretary-general Gwede Mantashe and the national executive committee to keep it on hold due to the party's national conference, which took place in December. He said the provincial executive council would convene a lekgotla on Friday to finalise regional conferences guidelines. “There is no number that is capped. You saw in the run-up to the national conference; there were seven people who wanted to become ANC presidents,” Joala said. He said the branch general meetings had not yet been convened to start with the nomination process. Makaneta first raised an alarm on the matter last June. “Everybody was then preoccupied with preparations for the national elections. Comrades were very busy and now that they have settled we believe they will have time now for national office to focus on the issue and give it a proper analysis,” he said. Asked whether his call won't be going against the spirit of democracy to allow for open contestation for political positions, he said: “Democracy is good under  normal circumstance but currently the situation in Tshwane is not normal. We have lost the City and the DA is governing and therefore we need to suppress elements of democracy for the sake of reclaiming the City.” He said the national leadership should host a cadre forum to start a broader discussion on leadership. “At the end of the discussion all of us should be able to rally behind one leader.  And we know that we are all going to go to communities and preach the name of that leader who will subsequently become the face of the local government election in 2021.” The youth league had not yet pronounced on its preferred candidate for the position of a chairperson, but it previously expressed support for deputy secretary George Matjila to replace Mojapelo as the regional secretary.