Judge Mmonoa Teffo said the barbaric conduct would not be tolerated in a civilised society. Fanyana Lucas Ndlovu, a former handyman at a supermarket, was in court yesterday for raping the child so badly - vaginally and anally - that she had to spend several days in hospital due to her injuries. The Gauteng High Court, Pretoria, heard that the child, who could not walk for days after the incident, had suffered lasting health problems due to the assault. Ndlovu, 38, insisted he knew nothing about the incident, although the child had identified him as the culprit. His DNA was also found on the child and on a beanie she wore that night. The victim testified how, after raping her, he cleaned himself with her beanie before he gave it back to her and then left her alone in the bushes. The half-undressed and crying child was found in the bushes by a woman who was visiting a nearby shebeen who had gone to the remote spot where the child was, to relieve herself. The child had gone with her family to the home of a family friend in Malherbe squatter camp near Benoni in August 2014, to tend to the sick child of the friend. The sick child eventually died. While the adults were mourning inside the house and making funeral arrangements, the child played outside the house with friends. Ndlovu approached the child and asked her to walk with him, as he was going to buy her sweets. The trusting child followed him, but resisted when he dragged her by the arm into nearby bushes. He forced her down and raped her twice. The child earlier testified how she cried and begged him for mercy, but he ignored her pleas. The woman from the nearby shebeen said she found the child with her panties around one leg and her clothes inside out. She was also filthy with dirt from the ground. She took the child to the shebeen for someone to identify her, but nobody knew her. She then took her to another shebeen, where she was also not identified. As she left the shebeen, the owner of the house where the child and her family were staying at the time came past and identified the child. He took her home to her mother. The child was rushed to the Far East Rand Hospital as she could not walk and it was established she had been raped. Her private parts were so severely injured she had to be operated on twice. Ndlovu was arrested soon after the rape as he casually walked past the house again. Judge Teffo told Ndlovu that his conduct was cruel and senseless. “You raped a defenceless child, an innocent member of society... even when she cried and you realised she was in pain, you continued. "The pain you have put her and her mother though will never be forgotten and the child will never be the same again,” she said. A social worker told the court the child was so traumatised that she no longer wanted to play with her friends outside, out of fear that she could be raped again. The girl  also did not want to speak about the incident and cried bitterly when it was mentioned. She failed Grade 1, and to make matters worse, her mother fell sick and died. Judge Teffo said the court was under a duty to send a clear message to Ndlovu and other prospective rapists that enough was enough and this would not be tolerated. Society demanded that the dignity and equality of all women had to be protected, she said. The judge vowed that the court would show no mercy to those who did not respect this right. But not even the prospect of two life terms in jail prompted Ndlovu to show any emotion in court. Apart from dodging the Pretoria News when the team tried to take his picture in the dock, he hardly reacted to his fate.