Makhura was speaking at the special official funeral of ANC veteran and accomplished writer and poet Professor Keorapetse “Willie” Kgositsile in Joburg. Also attending the funeral of the former national poet laureate was Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa and several ministers and political heavyweights, including Kgositsile’s former wife and National Assembly Speaker Baleka Mbete. Makhura hailed Kgositsile for a sterling contribution to the country’s liberation Struggle and to the creative and cultural industries which in turn also contributed in the transformation of the country. He said he needed to be honoured through the infusion of upright and diligent leadership that followed his footsteps. “Perhaps we can honour Bra Willie by repudiating intellectual laziness and unethical leadership,” Makhura said. Citing from one of Kgositsile’s poems, Wounded Dreams, Makhura said South Africans must choose to be hopeful even in the face of on-going corruption by leaders, because "cynicism is a reckless luxury’". “We should choose to hope again because the dark clouds of corruption which compound poverty, inequality and unemployment shall clear in our country as we move forward. Perhaps we should honour him by ensuring that the dark clouds of the breakdown of our political institutions clear again and that we get rid of the ills of our society,” Makhura said. The premier called for leaders to dedicate themselves to the restoration of the rule of law “by ensuring that we in political office are more accountable”. He described Kgositsile as a committed champion of the country’s non-racial project, adding that he remained positive about its realisation. “Perhaps we can honour him by dreaming once again as a people, and hoping again, for at the heart of his work over five decades, lies both hopes and dreams. “Perhaps we can honour him by rehabilitating the dream of a truly non-racial, non-sexist democratic and prosperous South Africa,” Makhura said. Delivering a eulogy at the funeral, Ramaphosa said Kgositsile was among the pantheon of writers who used their pen to fight against the injustices of apartheid. “He associated himself with people’s resistance Struggle from an early age, dating as far back as the 1950s when he became a member of the ANC. “He found a platform of articulating the anxieties of our people on the pages of the New Age newspaper where he worked alongside one of the most illustrious martyrs of the liberation Struggle, Ruth First,” he said.