The City has now appealed a second judgment compelling it to honour its contraction obligations with the group. In December, the Gauteng High Court, Pretoria, gave Tshwane a tongue lashing for failing to honour its private public partnership agreement with the group. This was before Judge LB Vuma handed down another judgment that the City must pay an outstanding debt and refrain from using other service providers. But another provider had entered the fray. City spokesperson Lindela Mashigo said that when Stain-Neo Constructions and Projects filed an application to rescind the order of Judge Vuma, it said the judge encroached on its tender. Judge Vuma said the City’s argument to defend its conduct was unfortunate in the extreme and it had flaunted its end of the bargain to the Moipone Group’s prejudice, and held undisputed serious financial prejudice to the company. However, MMC for agriculture and environmental management Michael Mkhari told the Pretoria News that the City sought a second opinion and was appealing, based on some evidence that needed to be reconsidered. He said that did not mean the City would not oblige if it was satisfied with a judgment. “We have appealed against the order of Judge Vuma issued pursuant to a court application brought by Moipone for contempt against the city and City manager Dr Moeketsi Mosola,” Mashigo said. “Last Tuesday Moipone served an application on the City in which it wanted an order to be final and not appealed against. “In the alternative, they seek an order to the effect that despite the appeal, the order ought to be complied with, pending finalisation of the City’s appeal." This would mean that despite the City appealing Judge Vuma’s decision, the City will have to comply with the order that the judge gave. “This additional application is opposed.” Mashigo said the appeal matter was postponed until Stain-Neo Constructions and Projects’ application was heard next month. Moipone spokesperson Keamogetswe Matsho said the City had only made partial payment of the outstanding money despite a order which required that they make payment within 30 days. “Despite the court order compelling the city to accept fleet vehicles as per agreement, it is still refusing to accept the vehicles despite numerous attempts made by Moipone to implement the orders by Judge (Noman) Davis and the later judgment by Judge Vuma. The City continues to make use of other service providers despite the orders made by Judge Davis and the later judgment by Judge Vuma.” However, Mashigo said it should be noted that because the City filed leave to appeal, the order of Judge Vuma was suspended. Meanwhile, protesting Moipone Group workers said appeals by the City were meant to frustrate the process so they could not resume work while other service providers did the work in their place. The protesters threatened to disrupt City waste collection efforts if it continued with its leave to appeal. However, Mkhari said: “We understand they may be frustrated, but we strongly discourage people from taking disruptive measures to make a point. “We advise everyone to put their confidence in the judiciary and allow the law to take its course.”