With the department clearly stating it would not release the names of those who had passed before the minister herself makes the national announcement, the indication was that city pupils and their teachers worked hard during the year and excelled. Some with as many as nine distinctions, these future leaders have indicated their intention to make it big in their chosen careers. They come from schools traditionally noted for producing high marks, like Girls High, Pretoria Boys High, Prestige College and Laudium’s Islam high school and from township schools in Mamelodi, and those north of the city.  The 2017 matriculants have scored marks enabling them to enter degree, diploma and certificate courses. Some spoke of plans to go into high-flying careers like engineering, the sciences and information technology, while others said they would go into policing, arts, or follow vocational paths. Umalusi gave the green light for the release of the results last week, noting a first in many years; not a single exam paper was leaked. Minor incidents, where pupils were caught with notes and cellphones in exam rooms failed to mar the release.  Irregularities which could have compromised the credibility of the exams have been missing. And yesterday, matriculants spoke of the culmination of their 12 years of schooling and their matric year. Some said it had been smooth sailing as they had been determined and encouraged. Others spoke of the lack of resources in schools and communities, saying their schools, and therefore matric results, were not as good as they could have been. And as the anticipation grew yesterday, critics vowed to keep a watchful eye on the Basic Education results, saying the need to look good was known to influence the outcome. Education specialists said they were aware of inflated results and marks awarded to undeserving pupils. “This is cheating the children and robbing them of the chance to get back into it and working harder,” Pretoria’s Lauren Msindisi said. The department said, however, everything was above board, all marks were good and marks given to deserving pupils. And, in anticipation of disappointment and possible suicides, the Minister of Social Development Bathabile Dlamini opened the department’s Gender-based Violence Command Centre to matriculants anxious about their future. “Reports of depression and suicide tend to be on the increase during this time,” her department said. She urged matriculants, parents and care-givers to make use of the centre to receive counselling and support from social workers. She also appealed to parents to look out for any signs of depression expressed by children so that interventions could be sought early to help the youngsters deal with the outcome of their exams. The command centre, which can be reached toll free on 0800 428 428 and which will have social workers available around the clock, can also be accessed via *120*7867# (for free) from any cellphone.  A Skype communication option for deaf matriculants was also on offer to lend assistance. “Just add HelpmeGBV to your contacts and a social worker will accept the invite and call you back. You can visit gbv.org.za for more information,” those anxiously awaiting results were urged. And also throwing their weight behind the class of 2017 were political parties, with the DA saying the fact that almost 75% of Grade 4s were illiterate was cause for concern, and warranted a sharp eye as the results were released. Organisations like Equal Education encouraged pupils not to despair and to look at other options if they did not make it into the academic sphere. “That concentration only adds to the unemployment rate skyrocketing,” they said. The government, civil society, and private entities had to open themselves up to assisting, advising and encouraging young South Africans to seek other careers, it added. Education MEC Panyaza Lesufi will, this morning, release the provincial results and celebrate pupils who have shown high levels of academic excellence in various categories. His department stressed that this, however, did not mean those not in that  session were left out: “Other options also exist.” See Pages 2 and 3