DA MPL Jack Bloom said the waste had been building up to dangerous levels in Gauteng state hospitals, allegedly due to the continued lack of payment to suppliers. Bloom said suppliers had halted their services to a number of Gauteng hospitals since early December. He said having medical waste stored at hospitals for more than 30 days was in contravention of the provincial regulations. This excluded sharp instruments which included needles and scalpels which could be stored for 90 days. The hospitals affected include George Mukhari Hospital and Kalafong in the city. Compass Medical Waste services, one of the companies that stopped its collection services, is allegedly owed roughly R7.5 million by the Department of Health in the province. Spokesperson Tenley Cummings said the company had a three-year contract with the province to service 80 hospitals. Cummings said the department was 200 days overdue on the payment and had failed to make payments even with the company offering a payment plan. Doug Anderson, financial director of Compass Medical Waste Services, said that over the past six months they had been accommodating the department regarding late payments and have extended credit in excess of the allowed 45 days. Anderson explained that as of the beginning of January, the company was owed R730256 in excess of 45 days, R1380495 in excess of 60 days, R1144596 in excess of 90 days and R321707 in excess of 120 days, going up to 180 days in some cases. “Given this situation and the concessions granted, we believe we have played our part in assisting the department over this period. However, instead of the situation improving it has become worse,” he said. “We have been granted extended credit, in some cases up to 160 days. However, we’ve reached a point where we can no longer allow the situation to continue as it is seriously hampering our own operations, job security for our staff, and suppliers, many of whom are small enterprises.” Cummings also indicated he was aware of Seane, which was awarded the George Mukhari hospital contract more than eight months ago, but could no longer fulfil its obligations in terms of the contract and requested his company to assist. She said that while George Mukhari had initially made payments to the company, it eventually stopped, leaving them with an excess of R1685153 which was 120 days overdue. Yusuf Dadoo and Leratong hospitals in Krugersdorp were some of the hospitals battling with what to do with the build-up of medical waste. The provincial Department of Health had yet to comment on the matter.