Using vulgar language, Trump on Thursday rejected a bipartisan immigration deal and questioned why the US would accept more immigrants from Haiti and “shithole countries” in Africa, rather than places like Norway. The African Union (AU) said it was “frankly alarmed” by Trump’s comments, and the US Chargé d’Affaires in Pretoria has been asked by the Department of International Relations and Co-operation (Dirco) to explain the disturbing comments attributed to Trump. The department's spokesperson, Clayson Monyela, said they were due  to meet the US Chargé d’Affaires today and provide an opportunity for her to explain the statement. Trump is yet to appoint an ambassador to South Africa. Since the departure of Patrick Gaspard, who served under Barack Obama, Chargé d’Affaires Jessye Lapenn, the second in charge, is the most senior representative in the country. Dirco said it had noted Trump’s tweet on Friday in which he denied making the crude and offensive remark. The department also noted that Trump’s denial was not categorical, referring only to Haiti and not addressing the entirety of the statement attributed to him. “South Africa aligns itself with the statements issued by the AU and the Africa group of ambassadors to the United Nations in New York. Africa is united in its affirmation of the dignity of the people of Africa and the African diaspora. Relations between South Africa and the United States, and between the rest of Africa and the United States, must be based on mutual respect and understanding,” Monyela said. “Given the historical reality of how many Africans arrived in the United States as slaves, this statement flies in the face of all accepted behaviour and practice,” AU spokesperson Ebba Kalondo said. “This is particularly surprising as the United States of America remains a global example of how migration gave birth to a nation built on strong values of diversity and opportunity.” Some African governments found themselves in an awkward position, as top recipients of US aid, especially as Trump has sought to slash foreign assistance.“Unless it was specifically said about South Sudan, we have nothing to say,” South Sudan government spokesperson Ateny Wek Ateny said. But the ANC called Trump’s comments “extremely offensive”. Deputy secretary-general Jesse Duarte said developing countries do have difficulties but the US itself has millions of people out of work or without health care, and “we would not deign to make comments as derogatory (as that)”. DA leader Mmusi Maimane called Trump’s comments “abhorrent The hatred of Obama’s roots now extends to an entire continent”. South African comedian Trevor Noah who hosts The Daily Show in the US said “as someone from South Shithole, I’m offended, Mr President ” African media outlets and the continent’s young, increasingly connected population were not being shy. “Well, that is the perfect definition of racism. That is all I have to say,” Kenyan entrepreneur Wangui Muraguri told AP in his Nairobi office. “Casual Friday at the White House is soon to include hoods and tiki torches at this rate,” SA media outlet Daily Maverick wrote. Many on the world’s second-most populous continent reached for their smartphones, long-practised in defending the vast and varied region from easy stereotypes. Some quickly decided to own Trump’s vulgar language or throw it back in his face. “Good morning from the greatest most beautiful ‘shithole country’ in the world!!!” South African Broadcasting Corporation anchor Leanne Manas tweeted. In Kenya, East Africa’s economic hub, political activist Boniface Mwangi pleaded: “Please don’t confuse the #shithole leaders we Africans elect with our beautiful continent.” Trump’s comments highlighted months of concerns about his lack of focus on Africa, including empty ambassadorial posts in key countries like South Africa, Egypt, Congo and Somalia. Trump has expressed negative opinions about the continent in the past. “Every penny of the $7billion going to Africa as per Obama will be stolen - corruption is rampant!” he tweeted in 2013. The US president is hurting himself both at home and abroad with his latest comments, some Africans said. “He has not only insulted Africans, he has also insulted African-Americans,” said Sylvester Odion Akhaine, associate professor of international relations at the Lagos State University in Nigeria. “Internationally, such language will deepen the isolation of the United States, a country that is already losing its global prestige.” As outrage spread, the US government’s own Africa Media Hub tried to put out the flames. Without directly referring to Trump’s statement, it tweeted that “US remains committed to working together w/Africans to realise the promise of a more peaceful, more productive, more prosperous 21st century Africa. US deeply respects the people of #Africa & values its partnerships with them.” - AP and Staff Reporter