The hope is that this can now be achieved by February 12 at the latest. This after Gauteng High Court, Pretoria, Judge Sulet Potterill in October last year gave Fireblade the green light to run the customs and immigration services. Despite various court applications, mainly brought by the Department of Home Affairs in its attempts to appeal against Judge Potterill’s ruling, and its undertaking at the end of last month that the company could go ahead with the running of its VVIP centre, Fireblade was still not able to do so. This was apparently due to technical reasons cited by Home Affairs. However, the company is now confident that it will be all systems go, as it and the department's director-general Mkuseli Apleni reached an agreement yesterday. Apleni unconditionally undertook to give effect to Judge Potterill’s order by ensuring ad hoc immigration services were rendered to all international movements at Fireblade’s airport operation. It was agreed this undertaking would remain in place pending the finalisation of all proceedings before the Supreme Court of Appeal and the Constitutional Court. Home Affairs Minister Ayanda Dlodlo has not yet given her blessing to the agreement but it was agreed that she could, at her earliest convenience, indicate in writing to the parties whether she consented. But this could only be a temporarily measure, as the department said it would appeal against Judge Potterill’s ruling before the Constitutional Court. But its first hurdle is to obtain leave to appeal from the ConCourt, as the high court had refused this. In terms of an agreement reached two days after Christmas, the Home Affairs minister and the department agreed to immediately give effect to Judge Potterill’s judgment and render the immigration services, pending the final outcome of appeals. However, Fireblade this week returned to the urgent court as it was not able to run any international movements, due to the technical reasons advanced by Home Affairs. The case stood down for the parties to once again negotiate. Shortly before lunch time Acting Judge Tony Thobane was told they had reached an agreement. They said if all went well, immigration services would be available from February 12. Judge Potterill last year ruled that former home affairs minister and now Finance Minister, Malusi Gigaba, did give the Oppenheimers, through Fireblade, permission to run customs and immigration services at the airport. Gigaba vehemently denied it. The Oppenheimers turned to court after Gigaba denied he had given permission in January 2016 for the go-ahead. The Oppenheimers  argued the Guptas were behind the backtracking.