The low-income city dwellers said they were tired of trying to keep up with increasing arrears and watching their power supply being disconnected one after another. Resident Mary Tati said: “Last week on Thursday, Voltano Metering workers disconnected 72 units because people had high arrears. Some tenants desperately signed debt acknowledgement forms to avoid power cuts and they used their last money to pay the required arrangement deposits. However, some people were still away on holiday and when they returned this week they found that the meat in their fridges was rotten because they no longer had electricity. “On Monday night, three workers came here to disconnect more units. One of them had a laptop and some papers. He was the one who was making people pay arrangement deposits and sign debt acknowledgement forms to keep their power. Tenants were angry after they disconnected nearly 200 of the 721 units on the premises from last Thursday, and they started a commotion.”  Tati said angry tenants gathered in their numbers and forced the workers to reconnect all disconnected units. They decided that the workers would not be allowed to leave before reconnecting the electricity to all units. “The people here are tired of living like this. Most of these tenants work in retail and earn very little money. The City of Tshwane wanted these housing settlements to benefit the poor so that they too can afford life in the city but that is impossible when electricity and rent take nearly all their salary.” Tati was speaking on behalf of the residents, and said all leaders who were vocal were targeted, claiming that they evicted them from the settlement for speaking up. The tenants said despite the problems at the settlement all they wanted was prepaid electricity so they could manage their own consumption. Too many had had their electricity disconnected since June last year. “We don’t understand how it is that people have accumulated electricity arrears as high as 
R18 000 when we only started living here last year. Some of us have arrears in the region of R6 000 and R8 000. We receive SMS notifications every single day about our electricity bills. It is just shocking when your hot water is disconnected but you still get billed for it.” The tenants said that, on top of everything, many flats had leaking taps and toilets, and they feared that could have escalated the “unfair” bills.  They wanted the City of Tshwane to intervene and so far only the EFF was trying to assist them. Tati claimed tenants took Yeast City Housing to the Rental Housing Tribunal last year and won a case. The company was instructed to install prepaid meters but that did not happen. She said they were tired of hosting meetings because they were not taken seriously by either Voltano Metering or Yeast City Housing. She accused the two companies of avoiding being at the same meeting with the tenants. She said the companies often blamed each other when tenants complained. The Pretoria News couldn’t reach either company for comment. The City wouldn’t comment, saying that electricity was run privately.