“There is a place for every language for everybody in the country. If we can teach Chinese in our schools and promote German, I am not sure why we even think that there's no place for Afrikaans in South Africa. “So much has been invested in Afrikaans. It is not only the Afrikaners’ language. There are many people who are not white who speak Afrikaans,” said Motshekga. She addressed a media briefing yesterday in Pretoria regarding the outcomes of the Basic Education Sector Lekgotla at Saint George Hotel last week. She also gave an update regarding the placement of learners in schools across the country. Motshekga was quizzed on how her department would assist the Gauteng Department, which had expressed its intention to appeal the High Court ruling on the Hoërskool Overvaal matter. The school recently brought an urgent application in the Pretoria High Court to bar the department from forcing the school to take in an additional 55 learners. Racial tensions erupted outside the Vereeniging school in the wake of the ruling, with protesters demonstrating against the school's language policy. Motshekga said: “I had an interaction with the principal. He had his issues with Gauteng and he drags me in and cites me as a respondent. And I only heard when they were going to court that I am a respondent on a matter that I had never raised any argument about.” She said she was a “reluctant respondent”, who was also dragged in by her fellow respondent, MEC Panyaza Lesufi, to contest the High Court matter. “I did say to the principal that there are difficult things that we have dealt with and the last place we should go to is the court because it creates unnecessary tension. It creates unnecessary animosity.” Motshekga said Judge Bill Prinsloo, who handled the case, raised issues of resources and readiness and not language issues. “He says the school is not ready because if kids are given to the school, 55 kids may look like a small number and think you can fit them into two classes. But the implications are much greater than that, administratively, for the school. It means the school must have English books (and) English teachers.” Regarding placement backlogs in schools across the country, she said: “We are monitoring the situation in provinces and most have managed to significantly reduce the number of unplaced learners since the start of school, with Gauteng and the Western Cape still having the highest number of unplaced learners.” As of Friday, Gauteng province reported that 5300 learners were still waiting to be placed. The Western Cape reported that it had significantly reduced its number from 11000. However, it said it was still receiving new applications. Regarding the imminent Day Zero in the Western Cape, Motshekga said: “Like many across the country we are concerned about the status of schools in the event of Day Zero in the Western Cape. We have been liaising with the province to get a sense of what their plans are in the now quite likely event that the City of Cape Town and province runs out of water.” She said the provincial government had assessed about 400 schools with existing boreholes to ensure water for hygiene and fire safety purposes. “Plans are being finalised for schools that need additional support to secure their water supply.”