However, the City does not plan to meet their demands, but wants to evict them “within the law”. The City has maintained that the deserving, rightful owners were homeless elsewhere while the current occupants lived in houses that belonged to other people. But yesterday the Olievenhoutbosch extension 27 residents said they had found peace of mind when the court dismissed the “flawed” urgent application by the Department of Human Settlements, but said their joy was fading due to lack of services. The occupants were allocated houses by impatient community leaders, who challenged the City's intention to allocate the homes to the rightful beneficiaries. The leaders said they had made the allocations because the City and the provincial government had taken longer than necessary to supply the list of rightful beneficiaries, and some of the houses were already being sold illegally and broken into. Yesterday, the occupants said although they were happy they did not need to relocate or be evicted, the houses were a “beautiful” nightmare since they were mostly incomplete. Resident Elizabeth Maima said: “We are pleased that the court did not give permission for us to be evicted but we have poor sanitation here. We use buckets to flush the toilets and some houses don't even have toilet seats. “These houses are either incomplete or some material was stolen when they were not occupied.” The “residents” said there were only a few houses that had running water and many people depended on those households for water. They said these were the houses that were used to supply water to the workers during construction. The people who occupied houses on the outskirts of the settlement bought their water from other RDP homes in the neighbouring extension 19. The community has a few taps located on the streets, and mobile toilets that were being utilised on a daily basis by scores of residents. “Our biggest concern now is water and electricity. Tarred roads can be built later. Right now we just want our children to have basic needs in their homes.  “Some of the people here completed their houses themselves. They picked up whatever tiles were left on the ground and put them on their roofs. When we moved here many of the houses were already vandalised.  “People had to buy doors, windows and other metal items such as taps because they had been stolen and sold for their metal value.” Resident Sana Mojela said: “The municipality must provide us with service delivery and then come here to certify us as the rightful owners of these houses.” Thomas Nuna, Levhuhani Mashaba, Justice Nevholora and Thato Masingi said they did not enjoy much of the festive season as they were waiting to hear the verdict about their situation. They said they feared being ordered to vacate the houses or alternatively facing the Red Ants. They said they had even travelled to the Pretoria CBD to protest outside the high court for a favourable decision. When Judge Neil Tuchten ruled that the people could not be evicted, they sang songs of celebration outside the court.  The community's legal representative, Andries Nkome, said Judge Tuchten had dismissed the application because government lawyers had stated their intention to evict the occupants verbally and not on the court documents. Their fears might, however, have been assuaged only temporarily. The City said the MMC for Human Settlements, Mandla Nkomo, was committed to seeing the rightful owners of the houses getting occupation and the current occupants evicted. City spokesperson Lindela Mashigo said: “The province is still working on resolving the matter to ensure the allocation of houses to the rightful beneficiaries. “The City is making the necessary follow-ups with province on the progress thereof. Allocation of all the houses in the city is done jointly by the City and province based on the set allocation criteria.” He said both spheres of government were committed to allocating houses to qualifying and approved beneficiaries. A list of rightful beneficiaries who should have been in occupation of the houses was shared with the communities via relevant councillors and also displayed at strategic points for all to see. “The MMC does not promote unapproved persons being left in occupation of houses that have llegally invaded. Rather, they should be evicted to make way for the occupation of rightful beneficiaries. This matter will be facilitated through proper legal processes,” Mashigo said. He added that the Department of Human Settlements and the City were unaware of any request or order by the high court to provide services to the illegal occupants, as had been claimed by community leader Joseph Bapela. Pretoria News