Weah, 51, the leader of the Coalition for Democratic Change (CDC) party, replaced Africa’s first ever female president, Ellen Johnson Sirleaf, who completed 12 years in office in two six-year terms as leader of Liberia’s Unity Party. His inauguration at the Samuel Kanyon Doe Stadium near the capital Monrovia confirmed the former football star as the West African nation’s 25th president. Kenya’s Daily Nation reported that the inauguration was attended by colleagues and former friends as well as heads of state from Ghana, Mali, Nigeria and Togo. President Jacob Zuma was unable to attend, instead sending Minister of Water and Sanitation Nomvula Mokonyane to represent Pretoria. Liberia and South Africa share strong economic and trade relations, further cemented during a state 
visit to South Africa by Sirleaf last year. Zuma said the peaceful and democratic manner under which the elections in Liberia were conducted signified yet another positive step towards deepening democracy on the African continent. In Weah’s first attempt at the presidency in 2005 he lost to Sirleaf and subsequently spent the last 13 years fighting for political credibility, including becoming a senator in 2014. The months preceding yesterday’s historic moment were mired in difficulties, including a run-off that was postponed after being challenged in court on the grounds that October’s elections - which saw Weah get 38.4% of the vote to Vice-President Joseph Boakai’s 28.8% - were beset by fraud. Liberty Party presidential candidate Charles Brumskine, who trailed in third place, claimed ballot stuffing and false voter registration cards marred the election - allegations backed by Boakai. However, Liberia’s Supreme Court ruled that there was insufficient evidence of fraud to justify a second poll. International observers also reported that the election was largely free and fair. Further dramatic events unfolded in the weeks before the swearing-in when Sirleaf was expelled from her Unity Party following allegations of interfering with electoral procedures last year - and of actively crossing party lines by supporting Weah. Sirleaf’s legacy includes maintaining peace following the bloody civil war from 1989-2003, which left approximately 250000 dead in its wake. However, poverty is rampant in Liberia and the country sits near the bottom of international rankings for health,
education and development. So Weah has a tough job ahead of him, with expectations high that he will successfully tackle Liberia’s struggling economy by delivering on his campaign promises of job creation and
an improved education system by
building new and better schools. More than 60% of Liberia’s 4.6 million citizens are under 25, and many voted for Weah in the expectation he would quickly boost employment. There are also concerns that hopes of tackling rampant corruption and the urgent need to bring technocratic expertise into his
cabinet might not be forthcoming due
to expected political paybacks for
those who supported his presi-
dential bid. Weah’s close association with former Liberian warlord Charles Taylor has also cast a cloud over his forthcoming presidency, with Taylor’s ex-wife Jewel the new president’s chosen deputy. Liberia was founded by freed American slaves in 1822. The first ship, Mayflower of Liberia, departed New York on February 6, 1820 for West Africa carrying 86 settlers. Between 1821 and 1838, the American Colonisation Society developed the first settlement and on July 26, 1847 it declared its independence.  - African News Agency (ANA)