Political lobbying for a potential replacement for Ramokgopa continued despite the nomination process for candidates not having been declared officially open yet. Party insiders said the nomination process is likely to be opened after the ANC's January 8 statement in anticipation of the regional elective conference in March or April. In 2016, the Pretoria News reported that a political contest was likely to be between the incumbent deputy chairperson Mapiti Matsena and Dr Kgoshi Maepa, who previously served in the regional executive committee. Ramokgopa, according to insiders, will not be available to serve in the region because he has ambitions to serve at provincial level. One of the persons tipped for the chairperson position is current regional secretary Paul Mojapelo, who according to lobbyists at different branches, was said to be a strategist. Also in the running for the position is a former parliamentarian, Zweli Mohlala, whose name was being bandied about in political circles. Mohlala was also a councillor under Ramokgopa’s stewardship. Mojapelo could not be reached for comment as his cellphone was switched off.  However, he had previously warned against entertaining talks about political leadership in Tshwane, saying such an approach risked plunging the organisation into chaos. “Those names don’t exist anywhere in our vocabulary. Anyone who would give a response to that would plunge the organisation into chaos,” Mojapelo said at the time when there were only two names. The Pretoria News understands that different party structures such as the Women’s League and Youth League were still to meet and discuss the names of their preferred candidates. While the youth league had not yet decided on its preferred candidate for the position of a chairperson, it had expressed its wish to have the current deputy secretary George Matjila to replace Mojapelo as the regional secretary. Youth league secretary Ratshi Mashamba said: “The ANC Youth League didn’t speak about who will succeed Sputla. We spoke about the regional secretary position - that we would prefer a product of the ANC Youth League, a comrade who is from our ranks to become the regional secretary.”  He said such a person was Matjila, who had been a member of the youth league. “Across the region a consensus has been built around comrade George Matjila becoming the general secretary,” Mashamba said. Asked for comment, Matsena said: “I will repeat what I said previously. Our main concentration currently is not about leadership. Our main concentration, particularly coming from the national conference, is for us to ensure that the structures that we build can assist us to reclaim the city.  "Our main focus is to reclaim the lost ground, not about the 
leadership.”  Matsena declined to comment on whether he would accept a nomination for the position of a 
chairperson. “We know that we are going to the regional conference but we are going to use it as part of furthering divisions. Our focus in 2016 was about who is supposed to be where in terms of mayorship and councillorship and we have learnt from that mistake. "Our focus is on rebuilding structures so that they can go back to communities and rebuild their trust in the ANC. If our focus is on leadership we are going to defeat that particular mission,” he said. The coming regional conference was initially scheduledfor October, but postponed due to the party’s national conference in December.