Exactly 15 days after the elections, Ramokgopa remarked that the ANC was still in charge of most of the wards in the City of Tshwane. This was at a media briefing at Sammy Marks Council Chamber, where he also made a telling statement that whoever would become mayor would have to go to the townships whenever there were protests or problems. While Ramokgopa didn't elaborate on what he meant, one could take it that he forewarned the incoming mayor Solly Msimanga and his charges of MMCs of the tough road ahead. What followed after Ramokgopa’s statement were spates of disruptive activities in some townships where the mayor had visited. Such chaotic activities, which started in 2016 spilt over to this year. They appeared to have been properly orchestrated to spoil visits by Msimanga, municipal officials and some MMCs. The most recent incident was during the tragic deaths of five Soshanguve children, who were killed after a metal overhead light came crashing down on them. Msimanga was in the township to express his condolences to the bereaved families, but he was prevented by community members and some ANC supporters from getting off his municipal vehicle. More chaos prevailed when the metro police officers fired rubber bullets at the riotous group, that had approached the vehicle with Msimanga inside. The police were able to keep the crowd at bay and Msimanga was whisked off by his VIP drivers.  ANC Tshwane deputy chairperson Mapiti Matsena, who was at the scene, flatly denied there was a planned move to disrupt Msimanga’s visit. After Msimanga had left, Matsena led mourners into houses of the bereaved families. On Mandela Day, Msimanga encountered another hostile reception in Winterveld when the ANC Youth League leader Sinki Mahlangu hurled insults at him. Mahlangu, a youth league branch chairperson of Ward 9 in the township, unleashed insults at the mayor in full view of the metro police officers, city officials and preschool kids. The incident was captured in a cellphone video, which surfaced on social media. Msimanga had visited a preschool called Sinethemba to donate toys as part of his selfless contribution to Mandela Day.  Some ANC members told him that he was not welcome in their ward. Regional  youth league secretary Ratshi Mashamba said the youth league members in the area told him that Msimanga also swore at them. In May, Msimanga was greeted with another hostile reaction at KT Motubatse Community Hall in Soshanguve, where he and Co-operative Governance and Traditional Affairs MEC Paul Mashatile had gone to speak with the community about service delivery. Msimanga was booed off stage and prevented from speaking, while Mashatile received a standing ovation.  He had to be whisked away by police. On another occasion, he was forced to abandon his surprise visit to a sewage reticulation project in Soshanguve when he was chased away by a group of community members. Msimanga had spent a day conducting oversight visits to social development-initiated projects in the northern part of the city.  He visited the sewage reticulation project, where he was locked out upon arrival. Angry community representatives in Ward 39 vowed not to allow him to enter the premises, saying he disrespected them by failing to inform them of his visit.  Local councillor Japan Baloyi said: “Just go back and come back next time. You will see we will prepare nicely for your coming. But when you come as if you are sneaking into our area, we won't allow it.” In October Msimanga, who has had enough of municipal workers who teamed up with community members to bar MMCs from conducting official events in their areas, urged city manager Moeketsi Mosola to crack the whip on such workers. He said some officials had been fingered as being part of the protests. He said some were seen on TV broadcasts swearing at the MMC for housing and human settlements, Mandla Nkomo, during a ceremony to grant title deeds to housing beneficiaries. In Olievenhoutbosch, the MMC for for Sports, Culture and Recreation Ntsiki Mokhonto found herself in the firing line when she was stopped from opening a library, which had just been completed. Mokhonto was joined by MEC for Sports, Arts, Culture and Recreation Faith Mazibuko, who was there to hand over the facility to the municipality. A group of ANC supporters demanded to know about the number of locals employed at the facility, but Mazibuko said the responsibility to hire staff rested with the city. Mokhonto told them the process for recruiting staff had not yet started. Some city officials had their fair share of rejection in Mamelodi while on a campaign to educate residents about the importance of paying their utility bills. Officials had just unpacked their materials and displayed banners with city logos at Thusong Service Centre when they were confronted by some ANC councillors. The councillors demanded that officials pack and go until they had been consulted about the initiative. The revenue collection campaign was planned to be the first step in recouping a whopping R8.6billion in debts owed to the city. Ward 15 councillor Joel Masilela said none of the councillors was opposed to the campaign, but wanted to be informed about it. In March, MMC for Agriculture and Environmental Management Mike Mkhari and Council Speaker Katlego Mathebe were barred by hostile ANC members from officially opening the Kruisfontein Cemetery in Soshanguve. Before the opening ceremony the pair hosted a meeting at a community hall. ANC members stormed inside the venue and pelted them with chairs, tables and spoons.  The VIP drivers were attacked and assaulted while trying hard to keep the attackers at bay. Mkhari was whisked away to the Akasia police station, where he opened cases of malicious damage to property, assault and public violence.  With the year 2017 now behind us and with the hostility against the DA-led administration still palpable - it appears unlikely that the situation would change for the better this year. 