The youngsters, younger than 26 years, needed to produce their matric certificates and tertiary certificates to soldiers who verified that they met the minimum requirements before giving them application forms. Dlamini told the Pretoria News that the army dealt with very technical components and training and those who sought jobs instead of careers would find themselves unlucky. The crowd, which gathered at the corner of Visagie and Paul Kruger streets, was made up of young people who completed matric in the last couple of years. Some had already completed tertiary studies and provided certified copies of their qualifications to give their application an advantage. They applied to be admitted into divisions including the South African Navy, South African Army, South African Air Force and the South African Defence Intelligence. Twins Thabang Mabua and Mariam Mabua, 20, from Ga-Rankuwa said they were interested in joining the Navy and were confident their marks would get them through. “I had to upgrade my maths and physical science marks last year, I am confident my application will be considered this time,” Thabang said. Goitsemang Lekalakala and Aobakwe Ranta, both 18, also came from Ga-Rankuwa. They had just completed matric and hoped to be recruited because they had decent marks which gave them a chance. Dlamini said it was important that young people who wanted to join the army be aware that the applications were not for 2018 but next year. This year’s intake was already completed and the new applications would be dealt with late in the year when potential candidates would be shortlisted for interviews. “We need to be clear to the public that the army is not a last option for people who could not meet minimum requirements to tertiary institutions. “We are looking for deserving young people who want careers in the SANDF. “They will undergo serious training and be trained to perform various technical tasks. “We are looking for young people who have the potential to become leaders in the SANDF and we will recruit on merit. “The younger than 22 age group may apply only with matric, then those in the 26 and older group should have acquired tertiary qualifications to complement their applications.”