Hugh Masekela, 78, gave soundtracks to many generations and the announcement of his death on Tuesday morning shocked the country. The legendary jazz musician and Struggle activist died after a prolonged battle with prostate cancer. Yesterday, friends, family and fans visited the music maestro’s family home in Parktown, Johannesburg. Sherry McLean, close friend of Masekela's sister Barbara, was one of the people who came to extend her condolences. With flowers in hand and tears welling in her eyes, McLean said she had to pay her respects and offer support to her friend. “I am here to convey my condolences to the family. I am from Ireland originally and Hugh Masekela’s music is very popular over there. “He had inspirational music,” she said. Meanwhile, on Twitter local and international celebrities and musicians expressed their condolences to the Masekela family and said the music legend’s legacy would live on. @RealBlackCoffee tweeted: “RIP Sir Hugh Masekela An inspiration, a mentor. We shall continue with the baton.” US actor Samuel L Jackson took to Twitter after learning that the legendary artist had died. He said: “RIP Hugh Masekela, you & Gabriel can grab Satchmo & light da place up!! #musicofmyyouth #freedomfighter #apartheidbuster.” The Apollo Theatre in New York was one of the few international stages that remembered Masekela with star lights and a tributes. RiSA  (The Recording Industry of South Africa) was among local organisations that expressed their condolences to the Masekela family, saying Bra Hugh was a fearless campaigner and activist. RiSA chief executive Nhlanhla Sibisi said: “There has been an outpouring of emotion and sadness over the passing of Bra Hugh and we as RiSA send our support to his family and the public. “South Africans will forever remember the spirit of Bra Hugh and what he represented. He was a fearless campaigner and activist, but above all an icon of South African music. The world knows of us because of his contributions and how he remained an African. "It is the end of an era, of a life well lived. He was right up there with the best of the best. “Rest in peace, Bra Hugh, you ran a good race.” The Hugh Masekela Heritage Foundation, along with the family, are expected to announce preparations for the jazz icon’s burial and memorial at a press conference today.