Menlyn Park general manager Olive Ndebele yesterday handed the money to the Smile Foundation. She also gave Disney plushies to the foundation’s chief executive, Hedley Lewis, to benefit about five children, depending on the type of surgery they needed. “The easiest to cost is a cleft lip or cleft palate and that is between R12000 and R18000 per patient and it goes towards transport, assisting with accommodation for the family, supporting the hospital and augmenting the multi-disciplined approach. “Probably four, five and possibly six will benefit from this, which is a huge number,” Lewis said. The foundation said they were committed to making a difference by giving life-changing surgery to children with treatable facial anomalies such as facial paralysis, cleft lips, cleft palates, craniofacial abnormalities as well as ear, nose and hand conditions and burns. The shopping centre was able to raise funds for the foundation over the festive season when customers bought Disney plushies at Menlyn’s Christmas Out of This World campaign activities. Saying they were grateful for the gesture, Lewis said: “For us as a foundation it just shows that no matter which part of civil society you come from you want to help. "For every child supported it is a child that now can be assisted and we can look at how many more can be assisted,” he said. Highlighting the significance of keeping a good relationship with foundations, Ndebele said: “It is extremely important for us because they have the experience we don’t have to go into communities and engage in an effective manner. “Smile Foundation does have that experience; they have established stakeholder relationships and networks.” She said they were proud to have donated funds towards the foundation and that the partnership would continue. “Driven by our need to give as many smiles as we can, we continue with our journey to reach as many children as possible through the Smile Foundation, who are in desperate need of facial reconstructive surgery and share their smiles with the world,” Ndebele added.