Many in the country are in agreement that much as Zuma’s legal chickens are increasingly coming home to roost, his removal as the first citizen might prove much easier said than done, given that the man has successfully used patronage and political mastery to entrench himself inside the ruling party.  Indeed, headaches don’t come any bigger than this, but one trusts that Ramaphosa’s fabled talents as a master strategist and negotiator will help the ANC navigate the treacherous road ahead. Apart from cleaning up the mess that its former leader has left in his wake, the ANC will have to allow and enable a parallel conversation to unfold within its ranks - the gender parity question and the ascendancy of female cadres to the organisation‘s highest echelons. A good point of departure would be an acknowledgement of the seriousness and strategic importance of this issue; and that it must be carefully managed and no longer be left to chance. Though this ought to be a holistic and organisation-wide conversation, the ANC Women’s League and women in general within the party must lead from the front and push to catapult the gender parity question to the top of the organisation’s agenda. The 40-odd women serving on the current ANC National Executive Committee must ensure that this is an immanent item on all programmes of the ANC and all levels of the organisation. An ideal start may be to ask the pertinent, albeit difficult questions about the apparent leadership bankruptcy of the current executive team of the women’s league. If anything, the recent abortive campaign to get Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma elected as party president at the 54th Elective Conference of the ANC exposed their lack of depth, wisdom and political savvy. The equal lack of courage by league members across the country to stand up to the bully which is their president was too palpable and, quite frankly, shameful.  If ANC women want a real chance at advancing the struggle for gender parity, they should start by pushing for the fall of Bathabile Dlamini and her entire executive. If not immediately, then at the next elective conference of the women’s league. These lot are the weakest link in the struggle for gender parity in the ANC and the country - and it will be foolhardy to attempt to build anything solid on so shaky a foundation. They must be told in no uncertain terms that blaming the loss of the conference to patriarchy is a futile attempt to divert attention from the real source of the failure - themselves.  The decision to impose a candidate without consultation and buy-in from the league’s lower structures, the choice of discredited characters to be faces and mouthpieces of the campaign, a misguided focus on attacking and vilifying the person of Ramaphosa instead of running an issue-based and principled campaign, the failure to recognise and endorse the two other female contenders were all harbingers of a campaign doomed to fail.  To make matters worse, none of the respected and powerful female voices within and outside the ANC lent their voices and faces to this campaign - a strong indicator that it was not premised on the principle of advancing the struggle for gender parity.  On the contrary, it affirmed a widely-held perception that the NDZ campaign was nothing more than an attempt by Zuma to secure a third term by proxy. Granted, NDZ is an established politician in her own right, with unquestionable Struggle credentials and an equally impressive public service record to her credit.  Some even attest that she is a hard worker with a reputation for being intolerant of corruption. It then boggles the mind where all these attributes were when the likes of Bathabile Dlamini, Sisi Ntombela, Nomvula Mokonyane, Kebby Maphatsoe, Collen Maine and Carl Niehaus were running amok at the height of her campaign, displaying nothing but complete arrogance, condescension and impugning the reputations of others? Did her silence in the midst of all this madness signify ignorance or collusion?  I am inclined to believe the latter. Otherwise, how do we explain her deafening silence, particularly since most of their conduct was displayed right before her very eyes and ears at gatherings where she was present?      Second, the women who are in the ANC NEC must lead the charge in ensuring that the ANC puts a significant number of women in charge of key levers of power and participation - in NEC committees and sub-committees, in all government structures at national, provincial and local level, in provincial and regional ANC structures; including in key ambassadorial deployments. This way, the ANC will be certain that it has laid a solid preparatory ground for female cadres to thrive.  In a few provinces and regions, the ANC has an opportunity to elect new leaders as a result of vacancies left open by the election of former incumbents to the national structures and, in some instances, the nullification of conference outcomes by the courts. This presents a golden opportunity for the women’s league and other women to push harder for equitable gender representation in the party to be made a reality. If their call was as genuine as they would have us believe, then it would not be unreasonable of us to expect to hear calls for female chairpersons in KwaZulu-Natal, the Free State and Mpumalanga; as well as female regional chairpersons in Bojanala as well as Tshwane, whose conference is around the corner. Surely, even the ANC Youth League, which is going to conference very soon, should be impressed upon to put its money where its mouth is - and advocate for the election of young lioness cadres at its helm and other key positions in its top five.  This, indeed, is a golden opportunity for all those who advanced the gender ticket in the run-up to the 54th conference to redeem themselves.      All of these, of course, cannot happen without women taking an active interest in, and taking the lead in the struggle for gender parity.  It must begin with them swelling the ranks of the ANC at branch level to influence the programmes of the party and to ensure that more and more women make up delegations deployed to ANC conferences.  If fewer and fewer women attend ANC conferences, I am afraid that getting women cadres to ascend the organisation’s higher echelons will be left to those who are not beneficiaries; and it may therefore remain just a pipe dream.  Ramotshela is a member of the Unisa branch of Nehawu and writes in his personal capacity                            