He warned that a large number of police officers have been deployed. “The deployment is one of the key interventions of the ANC-led administration to make Gauteng safe” He expressed good wishes to the people in the province, saying they ought to use the break to spend time with family and friends. “On behalf of our ANC-led provincial government, we extend our well wishes to all the people of our province. "This being a season of goodwill, let’s take a well-deserved festive break and have time to spend time with family and friends. “I urge all of you to extend a hand of solidarity to fellow human beings who are less fortunate by sharing the season’s blessings,” he said. He reflected on the work done by his administration, especially its achievement of 100% unqualified audits for the 2017/18 financial year from the auditor-general. “This is itself a cause for celebration because it is a demonstration that we take accountability and clean governance seriously as the ANC-led provincial government,” he said. Makhura also commented on the Quality of Life Survey 2018 carried out by Gauteng City Region Observatory, which rated the quality of life in different provincial municipalities. According to him, the survey showed that the quality of life had been improving consistently since 1994. “Rather than being complacent, we are encouraged by these good news. "We will work even much harder to focus on turning around the economy to create more jobs and be inclusive,” he said. Makhura expressed gratitude to all public servants “for their unflinching commitment and dedication to their responsibilities in various departments”. He said that his administration would continue its effort to attract foreign direct investment and unlock domestic investment next year. “In November, Gauteng co-hosted a successful and historic Africa Investment Forum (in) response to the national call by President Cyril Ramaphosa to raise $100billion for our economy. The forum contributed $6.8bn of investments to the president’s target,” Makhura said. The new year would also be used by the ANC-led provincial government to intensify its township economy revitalisation strategy. “Already, the Gauteng government has injected more than R22bn towards township-based businesses. “Tshepo 1 million will also be up-scaled to give more young people opportunities to enter the labour market and establish their own businesses,” Makhura said. He said townships were gradually transforming from being reservoirs of cheap labour for big industries into economic centres where goods and services were produced and sold. “Townships are also becoming spaces for dynamic youth development and women empowerment. By changing the townships, we are paying proper tribute as part of the centennial celebrations (to) liberation stalwarts Nelson Mandela and Albertina Sisulu,” Makhura said.