Her new neighbour at Rama City, Onicca Matlou, 36, was staying in a shack in Ga-Rankuwa Zone 5 with her 7-year-old daughter. Both were on the list of the first 200 beneficiaries given RDP houses at Rama City on Friday. MEC for Human Settlements Dikgang Uhuru Moiloa and his City of Tshwane counterpart, MMC Mandla Nkomo, handed them their house keys and planted the first trees in their yards. They are among the descendants of people chased away from Rama City by the apartheid regime. During the handing over of the houses, the beneficiaries were commended for making a good collective decision to “resettle” after winning a claim for the land in 2002. They waited for years to partner with the government until construction eventually started in March. Chairperson of the descendants Mpho Nthite said at least 600 children and grandchildren of the people chased from Rama City were selected to benefit from the R10billion project. “We are very proud because we did not opt to sell this land. Today this land is going to benefit us and the rest of all the people in the city who are in need of land and housing. “This land is a total of 750 ha that’s going to be developed, and a lot of schools and shopping centres will be built. There will be a lot of employment opportunities in the next decade.” Nkomo said that although at least 700 RDP houses were already built, the government decided to allocate the first 200 beneficiaries even though they were still without running water and electricity. He said this was done to avoid illegal invasion as was the case in Olievenhoutbosch. “We know it is a challenge because we don’t have bulk infrastructure readily available. But we felt allocating the homes to people is the best option because there have already been three invasion attempts here. “Although we are finally giving people their houses, we have mixed emotions because there is a high demand for housing here in the metro. The problem is that the demand is higher than supply due to the large volume of people moving into the city. “We are doing something, but we are far from reaching out target of clearing the backlog of around 220000 people on the waiting list. We will build more than 10000 houses, from RDP houses to social houses and flats. This is a very huge piece of land so the development is going to take a minimum of 10 years.” Moiloa said the development of Rama City was a mega project that called for a celebration because it was black-contracted, black-developed and black-owned. “People here were moved out by force during apartheid and we are returning the land back to them. We want this city to be beautiful and we are saying no one should come here and make an informal settlement and no one should build a shack. "Those who build must build in line with the City’s plans for development."