He was releasing the mid-festive season preliminary road safety report which showed that fatalities had so far increased in all provinces except Gauteng, which recorded a 10% decrease. Nzimande, accompanied by board members of the Road Traffic Management Corporation, said 767 fatalities had already been recorded this festive season. This was an increase of 16% compared to the previous period between December 1 and 18. “It is sad to note that we have witnessed a period of unparalleled agony, misery and pain on our roads from December 1 to 18. “The most prevalent violations include excessive speeding, reckless and negligent driving and blatant disregard of road signs. “Drinking and driving increases and the combination of fatigue and unroadworthy vehicles become lethal problems, particularly on long distances. “Pedestrian movements have also increased on our freeways and roads in semi-urban, urban and built-up areas,” said Nzimande. Department spokesperson Ismail Mnisi said the government was concerned that young people, mostly young men who were also breadwinners in their families, were losing their lives on roads. However, “very disturbingly”, the number of females involved in fatalities increased from 23% to 27%, while males contributed 72% of the total of fatalities. Nzimande said KwaZulu-Natal had so far recorded the highest number, with 162 fatalities, followed by Gauteng with 125. Limpopo and the Eastern Cape recorded 89 fatalities each, while Mpumalanga had 82, the Western Cape 81, the Free State 78, North West 57 and the Northern Cape 24. He said the department sought legislation that would allow the National Prosecution Authority to prosecute traffic law offenders swiftly. This would make use of evidence collected with fourth industrial revolution technologies that allowed drunk drivers' blood tests to be done on the spot. Although the minister commended good drivers who arrived at their destinations safely, he anticipated that more people would be travelling for the New Year’s Day long weekends. “We anticipate that more people will be travelling again on December 28 in preparation for New Year’s Day. “The last peak travel period will be on the weekend of January 5 and 6 when travellers return to their homes and places of work for the reopening of industries and schools.” Nzimande conveyed his and the government’s condolences to the families who had lost loved ones on the roads.