This followed an urgent application by Solidarity for an interdict to stop the promotions of about 628 Non-Statutory Forces members pending a further court application on the validity and legality of the project as a whole. The trade union said it hoped the review proceedings would be heard by January 30. This comes after Solidarity disclosed in November that the “secret” Non-Statutory Forces project will grant huge promotions to the members of the liberation movements who have integrated into the police. It said some of these members were younger than 18 in 1994, while others had since died. Solidarity said the project was implemented behind a veil of secrecy and the trade union had to turn to court earlier this year to force the police to hand over records and information regarding the project. The court was now told that details were still sketchy, but that Solidarity had enough information to launch the review proceedings due to be heard in a month’s time. Counsel acting for Solidarity told Acting Judge E van der Schyff that the application was urgent as the SAPS refused to provide an undertaking that it would not proceed with any promotions or re-ranking in terms of the Non-Statutory Forces pending the review application. It was said the possibility existed that Police Minister Bheki Cele could meanwhile go-ahead with the promotions. If this happened, it would be very difficult to undo, it was argued. The police denied the matter was urgent and said Solidarity knew about the project for a long time. The police also argued that those members who had been promoted in the meantime should have been joined as party to the proceedings, as they have an interest in the outcome of the case. But Judge Van der Schyff said that as these proceedings were merely to stop the police from proceeding with the re-rankings and promotions in terms of the Non-Statutory Forces project, pending the review application, there was no need to add those who were already promoted as they would not be affected by this order. Solidarity objected to the project on the basis that it claimed the project unfairly discriminated against its members not considered Non-Statutory Forces members. The police, on the other hand, disputed that the rights of these members were “trampled on”. It also disputed Solidarity’s claim that it acted in the public interest by launching these proceedings. But the judge said it was clear that this project was of national importance. “It is in the public interest that the policy and plan implemented to serve the interests of members of the SAPS, and specifically the interests of those who contributed to bring about democracy, adhere to the constitutional values brought by their sacrifices, and is beyond reproach,” the judge said. Pretoria News