Beer bottles, used nappies, plastic, rubble and other rubbish pile up inside. Day by day the pile gets bigger, almost covering old graves without tombstones, residents say. Early this year residents complained that drug activity was also rife there. As a result, the cemetery's former office and ablution facility were demolished by the City because it housed vagrants and addicts who constantly had parties in the graveyard. As the festive holidays drew nearer, more people wanted to go to the cemetery to visit their loved ones’ graves, but they feared the illicit operations and dire state, residents say. “In 2014 a 30-year-old man died in hospital two days after a brutal assault at a cemetery,” one resident said. Shrubs and bushes have grown through the walkways, and old wood and garbage bordered most tombs. Residents said they couldn’t see their loved ones’ graves because of the uncut grass and weeds. The surrounding palisade fences have been broken down - in some cases reused at private homes. An unbearable stench is being emitted from the garbage scattered around. Community leader Novina Pillay said the City should clean up and safeguard the cemetery because residents paid their rates every month. The SAPS should patrol the cemetery frequently. Another resident, who recently erected a tombstone for a dead relative, said she worried about her friends and relatives’ safety when visiting the grave. Residents said they needed more people to patrol the cemetery because drug addicts lurked in that area. Tombstones are also vandalised regularly. Mornay Solomons said: “When I got there on Saturday I found two little bags with a white powder stuffed in the flower holders of my brother's grave.” Ward councillor Benjamin Lawrence said the cemetery had become a playground for criminals. He conducted numerous clean-up campaigns with residents but "we can't keep on cleaning with no solid long-term solution.” City spokesperson Lindela Mashigo said they cleaned the cemetery, but the community dumped waste illegally immediately after clearing. “In one instance, a City official approached people dumping illegally. But they pointed firearms and pistol-whipped him. Also, the administration office was petrol-bombed. Last week, boys were arrested while stealing the fence."