Looking back, it was a year no different from others - people were once again sent to jail for committing the most heinous crimes. Tears from both the culprits and from their families was a familiar face in the formal, sometimes somewhat dingy courtrooms. Often the victims’ only light at the end of the tunnel was that they could at least get some kind of closure by seeing their attackers sent to jail. Judges once again tried their utmost best to discourage criminals from committing crime, by meting out hefty sentences. As in years before, judges had long speeches before delivering the last word on the fate of the person before them. More often than not, these words, usually cited from previous reported judgments from the Supreme Court of Appeal and the Constitutional Court, remained the same and I was able to mumble it to myself where I sat in my usual spot in the press gallery. The 16 days of Activism for No Violence Against Women and Children came and went. Some judges used this in appropriate cases to highlight the plight of our country in this regard. The issues before the courts remained the same - murder, robbery, rape Only the names changed and the facts differed slightly. If an accused committed a murder which was not preplanned and there was not much out of the ordinary, he or she knew they could expect a sentence in the region of 15 years. The same for those who pre-planned a killing - a life term in jail awaited them unless there were mitigating factors. More often than not, the true facts of what had happened, are never revealed. One can understand this to a degree, as most accused refuse to tell the truth in the hope of an acquittal. While all this sounds much the same, I often remind myself that it is not. It is easy to say upon looking at the indictment that “this is just another robbery or murder”. But it matters to those victims who are affected by these crimes. And it matters to all of us, as at least one more criminal is removed from the streets. Although murder always has a devastating effect on those close to it, and one case is not necessarily worse than the other. It it is the little child victims that I will never forget. Each and everyone of them. Little Poppie van der Merwe comes to mind, as she would have in all probability prepared for going to Grade 1 next year. Instead, she is dead. All because of her mother and her stepfather. Perhaps what made Poppie’s case especially troubling, is that this child was basically tortured to death over months. Another face I won’t forget, is that of Mark Zinde who killed his mother, SABC board member Hope Zinde. He will be detained in a psychiatric institution, probably for the rest of his life after he was declared mentally ill by the court. At first I was afraid of Zinde, who initially acted irrationally in court and even cursed the judge. But when I saw how his wonderful family hugged the detached looking Zinde before he was taken to the institution, my heart wept for him. Sometimes, just sometimes, things happen without it being that person’s fault. I know this coming year there will be much of the same awaiting me in court. As my old friend Horace Rumpole, esteemed barrister of the Old Bailey, is partial to his glass, and sometimes if he is lucky, bottle of “Chateau Thames Embankment” claret at the end of a tough day defending criminals, so will I continue to enjoy my glass of merlot at the end of a tough day in court.