“We worked through the night on Saturday, Sunday and Monday to turn the resort around and guests or visitors arriving at Sun City now would not realise that a storm of this magnitude had taken place. There is very little visible damage that remains to be seen,” De Lima said. “To put the storm into perspective we saw clouds forming and it started to darken in the afternoon. There was a little bit of precipitation, just light rain for two or three seconds, but it disappeared and we all thought the rain was passing over. “Then suddenly we had a massive downpour followed by hail which lasted not much more than 25 minutes. To contextualise the storm, in December Sun City usually gets 25ml of rain for the whole month, whereas we got 85ml in less than half an hour.” De Lima said they had machines and equipment that suck up water. “Fortunately, there were only two injuries caused when two women slipped in water. They were taken to hospital, but discharged the same day. We are very grateful there were no further injuries. It’s nothing short of miraculous.” He said their insurance mobilised very quickly, sending assessors on Sunday to begin the job of quantifying the damage. One area that suffered substantial damage was the Sun Convention centre but, fortunately, there was no conferencing at this time of the year, De Lima said. “We are working to get these facilities back in running order as conferencing will begin again from mid-January.” The pool at The Palace is operating again, but limited to residents only. All other pools, including the Soho Hotel pool, have had to be closed for maintenance to clear residue from the mudslides. The Soho Hotel pool was opened temporarily, but further inspection revealed that the main pump was flooded so the pool had to be closed. The Lost City Golf Course opened to players on Monday, and the Gary Player Golf Course on Tuesday. The casino, restaurants and bars and Sun Central are all operating normally, as is the Valley of the Waves. “There are some rooms out of commission due to the flooding,” De Lima said. “I estimate there will be about 120 rooms that we won’t be able to put back in the next two to three weeks due to extensive damage, but we’ve mobilised contractors and assessors are quantifying the losses so work started in earnest on Tuesday morning to get those rooms back into operation as soon as possible.” The Palace Hotel and the Cabanas Hotel are both fully operational and open for new bookings. The Soho Hotel, the resort’s main hotel, suffered the greatest damage to its rooms. An insurance assessment indicated that damage was greater than anticipated, De Lima said. “As a result, the Soho Hotel will not be taking new bookings until January 7. Repairs will be undertaken during this time. As rooms become available, we will share this information. Management is contacting guests who have booked for this period to offer them the option of either cancelling their booking or moving it to a future date.”