This is according to a report released by Public Protector advocate Busisiwe Mkhwebane on Wednesday following a five-year probe into allegations of maladministration and irregular awarding of the multimillion-rand contract. The first complaints about the contract were lodged by Richard Botha and Derrick Kissoonduth on behalf of Kusasa Healthcare in January 2013, claiming that the City stole their concept of smart prepaid electricity meters. Business rights organisation AfriBusiness also asked the public protector in 2015 to investigate allegations that there were irregularities and improprieties in the awarding and implementation of the tender. The public protector was asked to investigate the cost related to a subsequent termination of the contract by the City. Also under investigation was the appointment of a panel of financial and legal advisers to assist with funding opportunities to Peu. Releasing the report, Mkhwebane found that Ngobeni erred in terms of managing the financial administration of the City. According to the report, Ngobeni did not execute his fiduciary duties as accounting officer with fidelity, honesty and in the best interests of the City in the awarding and termination of the contract. Part of the report uncovered that Peu was technically insolvent at the time it was awarded the tender, with total assets of R49, and had a liability of R24079. The company, the report said, should have been disqualified from getting the tender by virtue of its poor financial situation. “The City did not conduct due diligence and therefore awarded the tender to a company that was technically insolvent and did not have any assets required to ensure that they have the capacity and ability to execute the contract,” the report said. Prior to the City terminating its contract with Peu, there were 12978 meters already installed out of the 43800 agreed as part of the initial rollout phase within two years. Mkhwebane blasted the City for ensuring that the tender was awarded to a company whose directors had “failed to comply with any government, municipal or other public sector contract during the past five years”. The majority of directors at Peu were also leaders in Masana Technologies, a company that was liquidated while assisting the City of Joburg with billing challenges, resulting in projects being abandoned. The findings affirmed a ruling by the Gauteng High Court, Pretoria last year that the deal between the City and Peu was unlawfully and constitutionally invalid.