She was embroiled in a bitter legal tussle over the corpse with the man’s son, who wanted his father’s mortal remains to be given to him. Onica Mqhadu took her stepson and Avbob to court demanding that the body be handed to her. Her stepson Sibusiso Mqhadu said his stepmother and father were estranged and he wanted his father to be buried at his ancestral home in Ixopo, KwaZulu-Natal. He also claimed his biological mother and his father were never divorced at the time his father married his stepmother. Thus, he said, the two were never legally married. Sibusiso won the battle, and the court ordered that the funeral parlour hand the body to him. As such, Jonathan Mqhadu will be laid to rest this weekend in his ancestral land. Onica said in papers before the court that she was extremely hurt that the family never informed her of her husband’s death. She said a friend called her and asked her whether the rumours were true that the husband had died at Mamelodi Hospital. “I was instantly shocked, depressed and felt betrayed and I hoped that one of my husband’s relatives would officially inform me of this tragic news.” Sibusiso confirmed the news when he was asked by a family member, but he apparently said Onica did not need to be informed as his father’s death had nothing to do with her. Onica subsequently went to Home Affairs to obtain the death certificate and wanted to bury her husband in Refilwe. However, she was told his son had already fetched it. Avbob also told her she could not have the body as it was being transferred to a branch in KwaZulu-Natal. She said she realised they were going to bury him behind her back, and she turned to court. “It is my right to wish to have the funeral and burial services in Refilwe; so the deceased should be handed over to me.” Onica said she wanted to properly say her farewells to her husband to whom she was married for 12 years. The burial of Mqhadu, who died about two weeks ago, had to be placed on ice to enable the families to vent it out in court. Sibusiso was adamant he had to bury his father as his stepmother’s marriage to him was “null and void”. He said that when they got married in 2006, his mother was still alive and married to his father. He and his relatives took care of his father up to his death. It was also his father’s dying wish to be buried with his ancestors in KwaZulu-Natal.The court agreed that Mqhadu's dying wish had to be honoured.