They have been camping outside the Union Buildings since last Friday morning, demanding that President Cyril Ramaphosa gave them feedback. The demands include that the government recognise the Khoisan as the first nation of South Africa and for their languages to be made official. The group also want land, in addition to the scrapping of the Land Claims Act, and their coloured identity. Led by Chief Khoisan SA, they said the government had all year to address their issues but to date, nothing had been done. “We are no more humble,” he said. He warned that they would not leave until their demands were addressed and met. Chief Khoisan SA said his community had declared the National Khoisan Council null and void. This was after the Ministry of Co-operative Governance and Traditional Affairs announced that it would continue to engage the National Khoisan Council to ensure that key issues regarding the recognition of the Khoisan communities received attention. However, Chief Khoisan SA said the organisation did not have all the Khoisan tribes in it and did not represent them or their needs. It consists of five main groups of the Khoisan - Griqua, Cape Khoi, Korana, Nama and San. “The Khoisan issue is not the National Khoisan Council issue. Lots of tribes are outside of that council and we feel it does not represent us, although the government is forcing the National Khoisan Council on us, saying it is the institute it recognises. “We feel we have been sold out by the National Khoisan Council because last year, one of the four demands was first nation status - it is our main demand - but in the Khoisan and Traditional Bill, there is never a mention of the first nation status,” Chief Khoisan SA said. Last year, the group met Ramaphosa on Christmas Eve after spending 24 days at the Union Buildings. Of those, 17 days were spent on a hunger strike. For weeks, the group had been appealing to then president Jacob Zuma to receive their memorandum.They went to the ANC elective conference at Nasrec, but were barred.