The UAE has strong ties with South Africa and 2018 brings together the legacies of Tata Nelson Mandela, founder of a democratic South Africa, and the UAE founding father, His Highness Sheikh Zayed Bin Sultan Al Nahyan. The UAE’s National Day marks the unification of the seven emirates in 1971, when UAE nationals and residents express their pride in the country’s developmental achievements. Today, the UAE is a model of tolerance and acceptance, with more than 200 nationalities living in harmony, choosing it as their second home, and the law gives nationals and residents the right to use the state’s healthcare, educational and cultural facilities. Last weekend, Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice-President, Prime Minister and Ruler of Dubai, announced that the UAE has the world’s most powerful passport. The ministry launched the UAE Passport Force initiative to place the Emirati passport on the list of five most powerful passports in the world by 2021, but achieved this goal three years early. On Sunday, in addition to public gatherings and showcasing art exhibitions, there was a lot in the UAE’s capital to celebrate its 47th National Day. In Pretoria, ambassador of the UAE mission to South Africa, Mahash Saaed Salem Mahash Alhameli, hosted an event attended by hundreds of diplomats, on Monday. “The National Day celebrations come as the UAE strides forward with wisdom and perseverance, following in the footsteps of its founding father, the late Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, under the leadership of the president, HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan and his brothers, rulers of all the Emirates, and through the hands of its loyal daughters and sons, pillars of the country’s growth and development, attaining developmental, cultural, economic, political and social achievements,” he said. The UAE is actively involved in the fight against extremism and terrorism. It has laws against discrimination based on religion, caste, doctrine, race, colour or ethnic origin, and hatred, and to protect religion. The UAE has also championed the values of tolerance and multiculturalism. The country’s mission in Pretoria sought to make the implementation of the 2018 Year of Zayed's vision its goal in South Africa. Staff Reporter