The award was for her contribution to international science co-operation, and was in recognition of the contribution throughout her illustrious career advancing South Africa’s participation in global science programmes. She was honoured for making an enormous contribution to the management of research and education in the country, holding key positions at both university and national level. Among her many roles, she chaired the Centre for the Aids Programme of Research in South Africa for two years, and the Department of Higher Education and Trainings Research Evaluation Panel for 10 years. She was appointed as the chair- person of the National Advisory Council on Innovation in 2014, which advises the minister and Cabinet on all matters pertaining to innovation, and on the role and contri- bution of science, mathematics, technology and innovation in South Africa’s economic and social development arenas. She was previously executive director at the National Research Foundation, Deputy Vice-Chancellor of the University of Cape Town and chief executive officer of the Council on Higher Education. She is also registered as a Research Psychologist by the Health Professions Council of South Africa. De la Rey is a fellow of the Psychological Association of South Africa, a fellow of the Royal Society of South Africa and of the Academy of Science of South Africa. Through her contribution in various programmes, she has gained a deep knowledge and understanding of the research and education environment in the country. As awards were given for illustrious work and contribution to the advancement of science on the last day of the two-day event, hosted by the Department of Science and Technology and which serves as a large, open public platform for debating the science and society interface annually, other recipients were given accolades. Among them were Professor Berhanu Abegaz, who was praised for his contribution to pan-African co-operation in science by the African Panel on Emerging Technologies of the African Union. Best Exhibitor went to HySA Infrastructure for its work in renewable hydrogen. Runners-up were SpringBots (an e-commerce company) and the Netherlands Education Support Office. Now in its fourth year, the event was praised for continuing to ignite conversation on the role of science, technology and innovation in society. The Minister of Science and Technology, Mmamoloko Kubayi-Ngubane, congratulated all the winners and praised everyone for the turnout at the event. More than 2500 people attended and participated in the various activities laid out for them. Ngubane said the forum had earned its reputation as Africa’s premier science event and helped African countries to shape policies and strategies.