The tender - envisaged to be a solution to poor management of projects - turned out to be a poisoned chalice for Mosola. The contract involved the awarding of a three-year tender aimed at assisting in the roll-out of infrastructure projects valued at R12billion. Controversy surrounded the tender procurement with many questions being asked around the legality of the application of supply chain management policies. More questions were also asked when it emerged that within six months of awarding the contract, the city parted with almost R500million apparently paid to the company. In some quarters of the City there were concerns about how some managers at GladAfrica had taken over some responsibilities assigned to City officials. The major talking point became the manner in which Glad- Africa services were procured from the 26 companies on the database of the Development Bank of Southern Africa (DBSA). At issue was the evoking of Regulation 32 by Mosola to procure project management services. Some shreds of evidence that emerged suggested something untoward might have gone into the contract procurement. The Auditor-General’s preliminary report, which was leaked to social media, gave a sense of how Regulation 32 was violated to push through the deal. The report was said to be part of the probe into the controversially awarded contract. In the report, Mosola was asked to respond to the negative findings made against the implementation of Regulation 32 of the municipal supply chain management (MSCM) regulations to procure the contract. The damning report, in a nutshell, suggested Mosola didn’t comply with the application of Regulation 32 as set out in the MSCM regulation of 2005. For example, it noted the City failed to demonstrate how it would derive benefits from its contract with GladAfrica as required by the regulation. The City’s procurement process using Regulation 32 was modelled on the approach adopted by the DBSA, from where it obtained names of 26 companies to compete for the contract. Prior to the AG leaks the controversial tender proved to be a serious bone of contention between Mosola and Executive Mayor Solly Msimanga. The honeymoon days between the two were spoilt in August when the first story broke, suggesting Mosola was in the wrong as the accounting officer who authorised the tender. Msimanga’s version of the story was that long before any newspaper article about GladAfrica, he had asked Mosola questions about the contract. Tension between the two was palpable during their last public appearance when Mosola hosted a media briefing aimed at clearing the air of any suspicion around the deal. It was on August 12 and Msimanga could not hide signs of disappointments written all over his face. Out of his true character, he kept mum throughout the briefing except when asked to comment. Even then, he said little about the saga. What followed after the media briefing became quite telling. Council mandated an investigation into the contract, appointing COO James Murphy to oversee the process thereof. Legal firm Bowmans was appointed to probe the lawfulness of the contract. Msimanga hatched plans to suspend Mosola but on two occasions in council his attempts were in vain. November 10 was a big day when the Bowmans' report into the alleged tender irregularities linked to Glad- Africa was expected to be tabled by Msimanga but it never saw the light of day because Mosola approached the Labour Court and successfully interdicted council from tabling it, labelling it “a bogus report”. Mosola questioned the terms of reference of the investigation, saying they were concealed from him and he only learnt about them in court. He criticised the approach by Msimanga to investigate him, saying: “The DA-led government must know that this is not the Wild, Wild West, where you skiet, skop en donder (shoot, kick and hit). This is South Africa, where the judiciary is independent.” Mosola’s court bid led to Msimanga blaming him for being a stumbling block to council processes aimed at dealing with the scandal. The Bowmans' report was leaked to the media. Mosola has called for Msimanga to be investigated for allegedly leaking an interdicted report. Joining the fray, the regional ANC threatened to take legal action against Msimanga if he didn’t heed its demand to set aside the tender. Meanwhile, the case between Mosola and council related to the Bowmans' report is awaiting a court date. Inside the council chamber speculation continued to grow that the EFF was linked to the GladAfrica scandal. ANC chief whip Aaron Maluleka once labelled the EFF councillors the “GladAfrica choir”, probably motivated by the type of posture they showed towards GladAfrica and in particular to Mosola. The tender, it is generally believed, was at the centre of a fallout between Msimanga and the EFF. At some point Msimanga presented a report detailing terms of reference under which Mosola must be investigated, including his suspension. However, the EFF refused a call to suspend Mosola and called for some alterations to terms of references. The GladAfrica puzzle now seems to be in the hands of the Labour Court, where Mosola took the matter to decide on whether the investigation by Bowmans was legal or not. The AG is likely to have the final say when releasing the 2018/19 audit reports for municipalities next year.