Ex-Springbok Naka Drotské looks set to go home, tomorrow, after being shot three times last week. This follows a successful elbow reconstruction surgery operation, Drotské went under the knife at 3pm on Monday and came out of surgery at 8pm the same evening. During the five-hour long procedure, pieces of shattered bone were reportedly removed, according to his wife Marzanne. He was shot in the chest, abdomen and arm, before being rushed to a Netcare Montana hospital where he underwent emergency surgery to his abdomen. According to Afriforum’s head of safety, Ian Cameron Drotské attempted to shield a group - including some women and children - by putting his body on the line almost like a scrum on the field of play. According to Cameron, Drotské flew across the dinner table and “scrummed” the three attackers out the door. “It's believed he acted as a human shield. With his arms interlocked and head down, between the attackers he pushed forward against them until they were out of the house. It was almost like a scrum which saved the members of the family."    Drotské, who represented the Boks in 26 tests and was a member of the 1995 World Cup winning squad, was at his brother's smallholding  in Kameeldrift when a group of three heavily armed robbers attacked them including former Bok teammate Os Du Randt. They had been doing business deals throughout the day and then went to his brother Tienus’ house to wind down. After they had finished braaing around 9:15 pm and were ready go inside the house a female member of the family tried to close the lounge security door, but three armed men pounced on her and forced entry. Drotské who was sitting at the lounge table near the security gate, flipped the table and scrummed the three armed men out the door. “It was a big scuffle almost like a scrum. But this time it was one against three. With his strong build he manged to win the scrum and that was when he was shot three times in the abdomen, arm and just above the rib,” said Cameron. The family then pressed the panic button, forcing the attackers to flee. But their woes didn’t just end there. While Du Randt rushed him to Netcare Montana Hospitalt the car they travelled in veered off the road, causing two tyres to burst in the race to get medical help. Luckily two other guys picked them up and took them to hospital. His brother has since vacated the premises and is living with friends at a nearby estate.