Spokesperson Senior Superintendent Isaac Mahamba said the tough stance was necessitated by recent road incidents of reckless driving. He said there was a need for zero-tolerance of road offences to make sure the days leading up to New Year were incident-free. Mahamba was not in a position to disclose statistics of road incidents, but said there had been a number of speed offences and cases of people overtaking on barrier lines. Jaywalking was recorded among other problems that caused road accidents, at times resulting in fatalities. Mahamba warned that those walking on freeways such as the N1, N4 and the Mabopane highway, would be arrested and sent to the nearest police station. “In November, we arrested 57 pedestrians on our freeways,” he said. So far, the metro police festive operations have focused on places of entertainment such as the Fountains and the Derdepoort resorts. “We want to make sure that those leaving those places are not driving under the influence of alcohol,” he said. He said the police observed that the number of people visiting those places had decreased because new resorts had opened in Tshwane. However, he expressed disappointment that new resorts were often without lifeguards around swimming pools. “We want to educate the owners of those resorts that you can't have a swimming pool and not have a lifeguard around the pool,” he said. Some resorts didn't have enough exits and entrances, which could pose a danger to revellers in the event of stampedes. Metro police officers regularly conducted patrols around the residential areas “because we know that most people have gone on holiday”. “From next week, people will be coming back to work and home. We will be going back to the main roads in Tshwane. We are going to be harsh on drunken driving. We are going to harass the culprits legally,” he said. Those likely to be caught driving while under the influence would go straight to police cells. “When you are not over the drinking limit you will be kept for some hours to sober up. We are zero-tolerant on alcohol,” Mahamba said. Those caught driving without a driving licence might be detained for 12 hours to allow officers time to verify their status. Mahamba said no one would be allowed to drive public transport without public driving permits. “We want to make sure we reduce the number of fatalities on our roads,” he said. “Our officers will be harsh on people overloading either goods or passengers. “If you are required to carry 18 passengers you must do so, otherwise we will offload extra passengers from your transport. And as a driver it is your responsibility to make sure you look for alternative transport for those extra passengers,” he said. The department engages in a joint venture with the SAPS in terms of other crime-fighting operations. Mahamba said: “We have had joint operations which led to the arrests of alleged drug dealers. We have had operations in the crime hot spots.” Elsewhere, City of Tshwane spokesperson Lindela Mashigo could not confirm whether there would be the annual bash to mark a New Year’s crossover at the revamped Church Square, as has been the case in previous years. However, the Pretoria News has it on good authority that the event was canned due to logistical challenges after the city failed to secure a service provider on time.