These were the words of Nelson Mandela, whose mantra on exercise will be tested during the Mandela Remembrance Walk and Run this Sunday in Pretoria. Just like in previous years, the event, under the hashtag #BeThe-Legacy, is expected to be nothing less than legendary. Expected to strap on their sneakers and hit the road are Bafana Bafana legends Shaun Bartlett, Doctor Khumalo and Aaron Mokoena. Wheelchair tennis sensation Kgothatso Montjane as well as elite athletes such as 2016 Comrades Marathon winner Charne Bosman and another past Comrades winner, Ludwick Mamabolo, will be there. They will join regulars such as Premier David Makhura and MEC for Sport, Arts, Culture and Recreation Faith Mazibuko. For those who have left it late to register, the good news is that late registrations will still be accepted at race collection points. Participants can still register for the event today at the Nelson Mandela Foundation in Houghton, and tomorrow and Saturday at the Union Buildings between 9am and 7pm. Online entries for the event, introduced for the first time this year for the 21km race, in addition to the 5km walk and 10km run of previous editions, will remain open at www.mandelawalkandrun.com until midnight tomorrow. The commemoration event is hosted by the Nelson Mandela Foundation and the Gauteng Province. This year’s 10km and 21km walks and runs will begin and end at the Union Buildings, where there will be fun activities for the whole family. The 5km walk will begin at Kgosi Mampuru II Correctional Centre and end at the Union Buildings. The 21km option has proved to be a popular addition, with more than half the entries received thus far being for the half marathon route. The start times for the 21km race is 7am at the Union Buildings, the 10km run 8am and the 5km walk 9am. There will be a wreath-laying ceremony in honour of the former president at 8.15am. The entry fee is R50 for the 5km walk, R100 for the 10km run and R150 for the 21km run, which will have nominal winner’s prize money of R5000 for the elite runners in each age and gender category taking on the 10km and half marathon route. All participants will receive drawstring bags containing a Lotto shirt, cap and some goodies. There will be loads of entertainment for the children, with child minders available, too. There will be food stalls and fitness displays at the Union Buildings.