Subsequently, the magistrate sentenced the culprit to two and a half times more than the law allowed. George Meiring, who was in court for a petty offence, was so fed-up when his case was postponed for the third time that he “involuntarily” muttered “f**k” or “this country is f***ed”. This landed him in hot water, as the magistrate ordered he be locked up in the holding cells for some hours. He convicted Meiring of contempt of court and slapped him with a R5000 fine. The law allowed a maximum penalty of R2000 and the magistrate had to submit a report on the contempt to the registrar and afford the culprit an automatic right of appeal. None of this was done. A Joburg High Court judge said the magistrate clearly did not know the law. Judge RT Sutherland, on appeal, ordered the R5000 fine immediately refunded to Meiring. He referred his judgment to the National Director of Public Prosecutions and the Magistrate’s Commission for steps against the magistrate and prosecutor. The judge said these bodies should educate court officials about the law on unruly behaviour in court. “The conduct of the magistrate (whose name was not mentioned in the judgment) and the prosecutor is a disgrace and calculated to bring courts into disrepute,” the judge said. He found that the magistrate was spiteful in having Meiring thrown in a cell for hours, and then to slap him with this hefty fine. This, while Meiring several times apologised to the court for the word which “slipped” out of his mouth. He said he was down and out and ruined financially as he had to pay for a lawyer every time his case was postponed. His wife had left him, he lost his home, and he had to take care of his ailing parents. Judge Sutherland said it boggled the mind how the magistrate could have convicted him of contempt in the first place and slap him with a hefty fine while he clearly had no money. After he uttered the offending words, the magistrate ordered Meiring be locked up. The magistrate was livid, claiming Meiring not only spoke foul language in court, but also “trashed the country”. When the contempt of court proceedings was heard later, the prosecutor “climbed into Meiring”, the judge said. “Not one iota of information” was elicited that could found a basis for his conviction. “The judgment is no more than a sanctimonious plethora of clichés It’s a disgrace.” Pretoria News