Johan van der Westhuizen, 39, told the Gauteng High Court, Pretoria, that all he wanted to do was to speak to his neighbour who’d been hurling bricks at his dogs and swearing at his wife. But Jacobus Prinsloo, 52, said he simply defended himself against the much bigger and younger Van der Westhuizen. He conceded he punched his neighbour, but said Van der Westhuizen had started the fight. Acting Judge D Makhoba turned down Van der Westhuizen’s claim and slapped him with the legal bill. The problems started on September 11, 2016, while Prinsloo was building next to his property. Van der Westhuizen’s wife phoned her husband at work and told him their neighbour was throwing bricks at their dogs, and swearing at her and the canines. Van der Westhuizen said he drove to his neighbour’s house, where another neighbour, only identified as Mr Bartman, was talking to Prinsloo. When he confronted Prinsloo, he was told Prinsloo was building a R7million house on his property and that his (Van der Westhuizen’s) dogs were constantly barking. Van der Westhuizen testified that Prinsloo swore at him and punched him in the face - his teeth scattered all over the place. He tried to punch Prinsloo, but missed, he said. Van der Westhuizen claimed his neighbour then climbed on top of him and kept on punching him while he was on the ground. Van der Westhuizen said when he tried to get up, Prinsloo threw a stone at him. Van der Westhuizen’s wife meanwhile phoned the police, but Prinsloo said “he owned the police”, so it did not matter. But Prinsloo told a different story. He said he never threw bricks at the dogs; he only asked Van der Westhuizen’s wife to move the dogs away as they were constantly barking. The next thing he knew Van der Westhuizen drove his car at high speed into his yard. He said the man stopped 15 inches (38cm) from his foot and swore at him. He said Van der Westhuizen told him “you will be buried before 4 this afternoon” before he head-butted him. Prinsloo said he then slapped his neighbour. A fight broke out which involved kicking and pulling of hair. Bartman eventually managed to separate them. Prinsloo said he suddenly felt something hitting him on the forehead and realised Van der Westhuizen had thrown a stone at him. Bartman testified a fight broke out between the two men after Van der Westhuizen sped into his neighbour’s yard and accused Prinsloo of swearing at his wife and throwing bricks at the dogs. Van der Westhuizen hurled the first punch and was very aggressive, he said. Video footage of the altercation was viewed by the court, depicting the two men trading punches. The judge found that Bartman and Prinsloo told the truth, and Van der Westhuizen was the aggressor.