Moeggesukkel, a charitable organisation in Centurion, yesterday handed over a large amount of mealie meal and boxes of meat to Kopano Manyano God the Founder Centre for the Homeless. Kopano Manyano will now be able to provide food to thousands of people who live on the streets. A relieved Tebogo Mpufane of Kopano Manyano said the donation was a timely lift for the centre as its cupboards had run bare. As NGOs that assisted the homeless in the city had closed for the holidays, he hoped the food would last until early in the new year. Mpufane, who himself once lived on the streets, said “we (Kopano Manyano) are their (homeless people’s) only hope... many NGOs close in December, so they rely on us for food”. MMC for Health Sakkie du Plooy facilitated the handover of the food to Kopano Manyano. The founder of Moeggesukkel, Jacques Papenfus, said losing his parents at a young age over the festive season had made him realise how difficult life could be for many people during what was considered to be a time of celebration. He said he knew what it felt like to have nothing. “For me it makes sense to give over the festive season rather than to receive. "It is about giving hope to others; we are trying to restore a bit of dignity, so these people do not see the need to go to extremes to have food on the table.” Papenfus said he established Moeg- gesukkel in 2011 “to uplift people who were down and out and fighting to overcome the challenges of life”. The charitable organisation also created work opportunities for its beneficiaries, to help them become reintegrated into society. They repaired machinery at a workshop, worked at a panel-beating centre and towed vehicles, concerns run by Moeggesukkel. Papenfus said the public supported the charity by using these services. The charity also had a catering entity, which fed about 200 people daily on the streets of Centurion and Pretoria East.Du Plooy said he was pleased food had been provided for the homeless over the festive season. “We should never stop giving people hope.”