This was evident again this year, where tears flowed, and people - some of them parents - were sent to jail for the criminal acts they were guilty of. While it is human nature to try to make sense of crimes against children, or find “reasons” why people commit such crimes, the court case often leaves one with more questions than answers. A number of cases I covered in the Gauteng High Court, Pretoria, demonstrate this. The first is a that of a young mother, Thobile Mbatha, 29, a former police officer from Tsakane near Springs. Mbatha will not be home for Christmas after feeding her two children rat poison, mixed with yoghurt. Her 10-month-old baby Mapempeni Madoda died in hospital while 3-year-old Siyamthanda Junior Mbatha survived. He is now left without a mother who is behind bars, awaiting sentencing in the new year. Why would a mother do such a thing? She cried bitter tears in court, and explained that her actions came after her husband left her for another woman and she faced an uncertain future, with the prospect of raising the children alone without financial support. One of the cases which received maximum exposure this year was that of the mother and stepfather behind the trauma and death suffered by Poppie van der Merwe at the age of 3. Her mother Louisa and her stepfather Kobus Koekemoer each received life terms. The defenceless Poppie endured years of abuse at the hands of her parents who were arrested in October 2016 near Brits after she had died of horrific multiple injuries, some inflicted because she had soiled herself. The court heard how she had been kicked, beaten, thrown and drenched by her stepfather while her mother claimed to be helpless to come to her aid. She was also found to have assaulted the child. The bearded Koekemoer sat broodily in the dock while Louise cried bitter tears, saying she too had been assaulted by her husband. Then we had the case of the man dubbed the “Springs Monster” who was to be sentenced to an effective 35 years in jail. His wife - who like Poppie’s mother failed her children - received a suspended sentence. The couple may not be named to protect the identity of their five children who were subject to horrific abuse, even torture. The children were aged from 2 to 16 at the time and the older ones were kept out of school and lived in a filthy and dysfunctional fortress where the father raped his daughter, until one boy aged 12 escaped and sought help. It emerged that their 41-year-old father was a sadist, who enjoyed hurting them while his wife was a pathetic mother, who failed to stand up to him and protect the children. She too cried bitterly when she testified how he had abused her as well as the children. The details which emerged during this trial read like a horror movie script. The eldest daughter, who acted like a mother to the younger children, was raped by her father, abused and forced to assist him in packaging drugs to sell. The 12-year-old bore the brunt of the father’s wrath, and was tied to kitchen cupboards, chairs and other objects, while he was beaten. One night, high on drugs, the father beat his son so badly he nearly killed him. This was the last straw, which caused the child to risk escape and seek shelter with a neighbour. The enraged father fetched his son, but the neighbours alerted the police. The horrors committed in the house behind high walls installed with surveillance cameras began to unfold. The children have been put in care but the damage done is long-lasting. The eldest did not go to school so are far behind, having not been taught to read or write. Another mother who will spend Christmas in jail is Rehithile Katlego Matjane. This 34-year-old admitted to killing her sons Alvero Matjane, 2, and Keyondre, 6. Alvero died from a single bullet wound to the head while Keyondre was shot in the forehead and he suffered a second bullet to his lower right arm as he tried to protect himself from his mother. Why did she do it? She said she had taken medication bought over the counter and suffered from temporary amnesia, leaving her with no recollection of her actions. The court did not agree, believing she may have been trying to get back at her husband, a psychiatrist, as their marriage was in trouble. Although she had another child this year, the court handed down a life sentence. Then there is Mandla Chauke, the cruel stepfather who drowned his partner’s 6-month-old baby girl in a bucket of urine, stacking items on top of it, while her mother was out. By the time the mother realised her baby was missing and went to the house with police, the child was dead. Chauke was found guilty. 2019 is unlikely to be any different, with the court roll loaded with more cases of atrocities against children. Judges and the community will again try to make sense of these when deliberating on appropriate punishment for the adults who failed to look after their children. Mostly, there are expected to be no answers as to why.