Dr Kris Launer, 82, suffered severe injuries when she fell after she walked across the wooden floor with her walking cane. She instituted a R100 000 damages claim against Hyprop Investment Ltd, which traded as Clearwater Mall. Launder told the court she and her husband went to the mall on May 17, 2014. As they walked along the display area she tripped and fell across a wooden square. There were electrical power plug points in the area, covered with the wooden flooring. Launer testified she walked alongside her husband, holding her walking cane. She insisted she was wearing flat shoes at the time. She said she tripped over a metal object which stuck out from the wooden square. She landed on her face with her hand spread out. Launer said she never saw any signs warning the public about the protrusion. When questioned about what caused her to fall, she could not explain whether it was due to the metal object on the wooden floor or something else. She said she never saw the metal screw, but she presumed it was that as her husband noticed a hole in the wood where a screw was supposed to be. Mall management denied any negligence and handed video footage to the court, where the episode was recorded. It showed a woman sitting on a chair, but Launder denied it was her. She admitted she was given a chair to sit on while emergency services arrived. She was adamant that she wore flat shoes and was at a loss for words when the footage showed that she was wearing high heels. When he was called to the witness box, her husband testified that she was wearing high heels. He said he had no idea how his wife tripped and fell. Launer blamed mall management as she said it should have ensured the floor was even and not to pose a danger to shoppers. She said it should have warned people that it was dangerous to walk around the exhibition area. Her lawyer told the court the power boxes in the area caused an obstacle, and was a danger to the public. He conceded she wore high heeled shoes which could have caused her fall. The court found Launer an unreliable witness. The judge said the only issue which was not contradicted in her evidence was the fact that she fell. Her claim was turned down. Her attempt to appeal also failed.