He had just carried out a successful drive to collect money to graduate and pursue his career of teaching. He dreams of teaching English in China, he said. He had had this dream for a long time until the outstanding university fees stood between him and his graduation. Dludla graduated, but was turned down when he failed to provide proof for his qualifications - a diploma and Bachelor of Technology in language practice - to accompany his application for the post. This was because he owed the university R32000. To raise the money, the 26 year old humbly admitted he needed financial aid and took to the streets of Soshanguve. He managed to raise R400 on his first day. The more days passed, the more people donated, and within two weeks he had enough money to pay off his debt. Dludla’s story touched many on social media and images of him standing with a board were shared rapidly across different platforms. He said 30% of the money came from fellow students while he walked around campus. Dludla said words could not begin to explain how he felt. “I felt very happy. I can’t even explain the feeling. People have really helped me a lot. “The money came from individuals. The highest I got was from a woman who sent R5000 straight into my account. About 30% of the money came from students, donating coins." He reflected on how the lack of funds hindered his dreams of a big opportunity: “In September I was offered a job to teach English in China, but I still owed money to the university and thus couldn’t prove that I was indeed qualified to teach.” But another opportunity has arisen and he will be headed to that country soon. “My agency managed to secure another job in that country, so I’m really thankful for what people did for me.” He said he wished institutions would stop issuing financial statements to students with outstanding fees. “They should rather give certificates; not having them puts our dreams on hold. It happened to me and I know how it feels,” he said. He had tried approaching banks for loans, but failed because he could offer no surety.