A case in point was the revelation that senior DA member Marietha Aucamp was catapulted to the position of chief of staff despite her lack of requisite qualifications. Aucamp faked her BTech degree to secure the position. The revelation was an embarrassing moment for Msimanga, and he was slammed over his admission that he didn’t know that Aucamp didn't have the necessary qualifications. The EFF members were scathing in their attack on Msimanga and Aucamp. They stormed a high-profile meeting chaired by Msimanga at a Tshwane House boardroom to demand Aucamp's axing. Calls were made by the SACP in Tshwane for an independent inquiry. Aucamp quit in May amid calls for her to pay back the money she had been paid following her appointment in 2016 with an annual salary package of R1.2million. City manager Dr Moeketsi Mosola is on record as claiming that a perceived onslaught against him stemmed from the fact that he had acted against Aucamp. He accused Msimanga of orchestrating attacks against him after he made adverse findings against Aucamp following a probe into her qualifications. On the other hand, Msimanga accused Mosola of launching a witch-hunt by using a qualifications audit report to target those in political office. This was after Mosola released a report on irregular senior appointments in Msimanga’s office in August. The report was part of Msimanga’s request for a progress report update and a preliminary report on the citywide investigation he had instituted after the Aucamp scandal. The report revealed that mayoral spokesperson Samkelo Mgobozi was hired in the position despite his lack of the necessary experience. The temporary appointment of former executive head in the private office of the executive mayor, Stefan Adriaan de Villiers, was also found to be irregular and not in line with the City’s staffing policy. Also implicated in the report was Tiyiselani Babane, a senior manager in the office of council Speaker Katlego Mathebe. The report found that Babane’s temporary appointment was irregular. However, his fixed-term appointment was in line with the City’s recruitment policies.