But there may be trouble on the horizon. The Electoral Commission of South Africa, responsible for municipal, provincial and national elections, is struggling to ensure the integrity of the voters roll for the poll next year. The elections for the national and nine provincial legislatures are scheduled for May. It has been more than two years since the Constitutional Court ordered the commission to ensure that all registered voters and candidates had verifiable residential addresses. To date, this hasn’t been done. The commission was ordered to develop a list that captures “sufficient particularities of the voter’s address” for all voters by June this year. This would have enabled voters to cast ballots only in the voting districts where they ordinarily lived. Even though the court has since acceded to the commission’s request to extend the deadline - it’s now November 30 next year, after the elections - it has a duty to ensure that the elections are legitimate despite the problems with the voters roll. This will require concerted efforts by all political parties and other election stakeholders. They will need to use the pre-election registration weekends set aside by the commission for next year to guarantee that only those eligible to vote do so. In addition, to retain public confidence in its credentials as an independent body, the commission needs to do all it can to remove doubts and suspicions regarding the eligibility of voters and candidates. The need for it to ensure, as far as possible, that the largest number of registered voters are legitimate, with traceable physical addresses, cannot be overemphasised.  Why verifiable addresses matter Electoral systems rest largely on verifiable election registers. These include voter and candidate lists. Verifiable voters’ credentials ensure only those who are entitled to vote do so. A lack of verifiable addresses suggests lack of transparency in the electoral system, raising suspicions. South Africa’s voting population changes every five years as the number of registered voters increases. Not knowing the extent of the increase, and where to target first-time voters, poses a problem for political parties during campaigning. It would also be difficult to know how many polling stations to expect. If a voter’s residential addresses, or other means of determining where they live, cannot be verified, they may be prevented from voting. This denies them the right to choose their leaders or to run for office. Alternatively, they may be allowed to vote through an onerous process that relies on presiding officers’ discretion. This is usually viewed with suspicion. Another problem is that ineligible people might vote. And others might vote outside of their voting districts, unfairly influencing the outcome. This can undermine the legitimacy of elections. These hitches and issues are the reason that the Constitutional Court’s 2016 judgment was so welcome.  Salvaging the situation Despite problems with its voters roll, South Africa remains a beacon of electoral hope and democracy. The general elections may still retain a semblance of fair representation in public participation based on other factors such as voter participation, free political campaigning and the tolerance of divergent political views and parties. The commission’s ongoing discussions and mediation efforts are crucial to addressing any potential problems. The Conversation  Maphunye is professor and chair of the Department of Political Sciences at Unisa.