Last week, however, the charges against Amos Maluleke were withdrawn, and the family from Atteridgeville said they were in pain and frustrated. The charges were withdrawn after it was found there was no DNA linking the 42-year-old neighbour to the murder. Maluleke appeared in the Atteridgeville Magistrate’s Court several times on the same charges until his release on Friday. He had been accused of using a lollipop to lure the boy to his home in April, where he raped him before killing him and dumping his body near a shack. The boy was found with blood on his trousers in April. His neck had been twisted. Maluleke was arrested and had been in police custody since. The family said they visited the offices of the Director of Public Prosecution to express their anger. Hlayisani’s aunt Magdeline Vabaza said she was in court last week when prosecutors delivered the news that shattered them. She said they had been hopeful since May after the accused was denied bail, but were now left with more questions than answers. “We had hope he would serve life in prison for the murder when the magistrate denied him bail; now we are shattered. We fail to understand how in the beginning they said they found his DNA under Hlayisani’s nails, indicating that he fought back, but now all the charges are withdrawn it doesn’t make sense,” she said. Vabaza said Maluleke was taken to his old home after his release from custody. The home was not too far from where the boy lived. However, she said he left the area after residents threatened to set him alight. “He went to Saulsville and only stayed there for a few minutes.” Easter Baloyi, the boy’s grandmother, said they were living in fear since Maluleke's release. “We no longer send kids to spaza shops because we don’t know what his next move will be. I sent Hlayisani’s sister to visit relatives because he might strike again.” Atteridgeville police station spokesperson Mapula Rikhotso said: “According to the investigating officer, the case was withdrawn because of the absence of DNA linkage.” During court proceedings, the State argued that Maluleke spent half of the 1990s and 2000s in prison for crimes, including sexual assault. He was out on parole, having been sentenced to 21 years’ imprisonment in the last case. He had been convicted of murder. Eva Tsaki Makhubela wrote on Facebook: “This bastard. Now our kids are no longer safe. I feel pity for the mother who lost her son.” Lilly Jeanette Makamo wrote: “We must stop reporting these animals to the police and start punishing them ourselves. I’m sure other animals will learn the lesson.”