The scenario was due to play itself out yet again this morning when Sibanyoni’s stepfather, Johannes Mokgatla, returns to the Ekangala Magistrate’s Court for a bail application. On Monday, Sibanyoni came face-to-face with the man accused of murdering her 9-year-old son Nhlanhla for the first time since the tragedy. Nhlanhla disappeared and was apparently murdered on November 22. Mokgatla is appearing in court in connection with the murder of the Grade 2 learner from Sikhulisile Primary School. The child was found dead in the bushes after he left for school. On Monday, angry community members filled the small courtroom to show support to the family of the slain child. The 47-year-old suspect, who looked down for most of his brief first court appearance, had lived with the boy’s family since 2014 and up until the day of the tragedy. He was arrested on Thursday in KwaMhlanga, not far from where the boy lived. Nhlanhla was found face down by a cow herder three weeks ago. The boy could not be identified immediately owing to the extensive injuries to his face. Community members said it appeared the boy had been beaten in the face with a blunt object. The boy’s mother spoke to the Pretoria News outside court subsequent to the proceedings and said the family had not yet come to terms with Nhlanhla’s death. “I’m really not okay, especially after today’s proceedings. Facing this man was really the hardest thing to do," the distraught mother said. “I can’t believe they are even considering giving him bail after what he had done. It really hurts,” she said. She previously said Mokgatla had on the morning of the tragedy left a note threatening that he would murder the boy. In the note, which has since been taken by the police, it was stated: “Nhlanhla and I are dead and I have enough pills to kill the both of us”. Sibanyoni said she had a misunderstanding with the suspect the previous night over cellphone airtime amounting to R13. Community members have vowed to support the family until the end. They were expected to demonstrate outside the court when the accused makes his second appearance.