So advocates Minister of Arts and Culture Nathi Mthethwa, who with Russian ambassador Mikhail Petrakov, unveiled the names of 67 Soviet soldiers on the Wall of Names at Freedom Park in Pretoria last week. The names form part of the body of more than 139 000 names of those who died across eight conflicts that shaped South African history. The soldiers from the former USSR sacrificed their lives for the freedom of South Africa, and it was appropriate that the unveiling on Thursday is in Reconciliation Month, and during the year celebrating the centenaries of Nelson Mandela and Albertina Sisulu, Freedom Park chief executive Jane Mufamadi noted. Petrakov has been instrumental in promoting an understanding of the special relationship between the two countries, and ensuring that USSR soldiers, like their Cuban counterparts who fought in Angola, were properly recognised. Soviet and Cuban troops fought side by side in the battle of Cuito Cuanavale - a decisive battle between Cuban backed Fapla, with support from the Soviet Union, and Unita with the support of the former SADF. The battle led to the Tripartite Accord between Angola, Cuba and South Africa which in turn resulted in the independence of Namibia and the withdrawal of foreign troops from Angola. Not only did Soviet soldiers fight in southern Africa but the Soviet Union also provided training. Minister of Small Business Lindiwe Zulu and Mthethwa spoke at the unveiling of the names of the loyal support of the former Soviet Union for the anti-apartheid Struggle and the ongoing co-operation between the two countries. Russia took the side of the oppressed people of southern Africa, and this is the history that needs to be taught in school, said Zulu. This call was echoed by Mthethwa, who said the battle of Cuito Cuanavale was a turning point in the Struggle. They also acknowledged the role the Soviet USSR played in training MK soldiers and offering educational opportunities to many in the Struggle - including Zulu who studied in Moscow and is fluent in Russian. Val Boje