Known as Tshwarisanang, the R3million project was officially launched by former mayor Kgosientso Ramokgopa in May 2016 with promises to boost the local economy by creating jobs. Executive Mayor Solly Msimanga said project managers had taken legal action against the City with a view to forcing it to honour a three-year agreement to purchase refuse bags from them. This was after the project’s operations were halted, apparently because it did not receive support from the City. Msimanga said: “It’s not true that the project stalled because the City of Tshwane could not support the project. It stalled because what was agreed between the City and the project there could not be produced.” According to him, manufacturers compromised on the quality of plastics as specified in the agreement. “There is a legal challenge that is on the table with regards to that, and we are hoping this can be resolved. It is an unfortunate situation because this is supposed to have been a job-creating scheme or initiative, but it has fallen flat because what has been agreed upon and what has been delivered are two different things,” Msimanga said. During its opening, it was announced that the project would produce refuse plastic bags for the City as part of a three-year business deal between two entities. Back then, the City said it spent almost R2 billion a year in purchasing plastic bags, saying the amount would be spent on buying plastics from a local manufacturer. Beneficiaries of the business owners were local unemployed youth and women operating under Mesarasarane Trading and Projects Co-operative Limited. Former Member of the Mayoral Committee for economic development Subesh Pillay, then said the City partnered with Plastics SA to ensure the bags complied with industry standard specifications. It was said various businesses had committed to supporting the initiative by procuring the goods to be manufactured at the facility. Wimpy, Shell Garage, Studio 14 Gallery and Tea Garden restaurants were among those that pledged support for the project. There were no activities taking place at the facility during a recent visit by the Pretoria News. Tall grass had grown in the yard, and the locals were in the dark about the reasons for its closure. Msimanga said the City was willing to support the project on condition it would produce plastics of good quality. “If they are producing what has been required it will be procured from them. The fault is not from the City, the fault is from the producers.”