The 15 workers had downed tools in July, resulting in a huge backlog in issuing new or renewed licence cards. In the process, they put on hold the production of about 450000 licence cards issued a month at the Erasmus- kloof premises. During their five month stay-away, the workers tried to embark on a protest outside the company premises, but were interdicted. They then stayed away from work amid the dispute rooted in contractual issues. The workers had been employed at the company for 20 years before it was taken over by the Department of Transport in 2015. They were demanding permanent jobs during the strike. Motorists were not immediately affected by the strike, but the waiting periods for driving licences increased as time went on. Apart from receiving fines from traffic law enforcers for not carrying their licences, motorists have been experiencing problems when purchasing new vehicles - dealerships may only release the vehicle on receiving a copy of the buyer’s valid licence. #NotInMyName, which took up their fight to get fair treatment at work, said it was all systems go. “It has been a long and treacherous battle. We had to fight for months on end. We even had to go underground,” its secretary general Themba Masango said. The workers declined to speak to the media, but two insiders confirmed the workers were back and working. The contract for issuing driving licences was previously held by Prodiba, which ended up in protracted litigation with the Transport Department over the right to extend it for another five years. In February 2013, and with just a month to go before his employment at the department expired, then director-general George Mahlalela extended Prodiba’s contract for another five years. This contradicted the department’s previous plan to bring the issuing of licences in-house. The contract, worth an estimated R1.1billion, was challenged by the department and overturned in the Supreme Court of Appeal. In June 2015 the Constitutional Court upheld the Supreme Court decision and refused Prodiba the right to appeal. The department then brought the issuing of licences in-house, under Driving Licensing Card and Account.