The profound statement by Shaun Shelly, researcher and lecturer at the Department of Family Medicine at the University of Pretoria, received the audience's undivided attention at the Science Forum South Africa 2018 yesterday. The two-day event at the CSIR International Convention Centre is hosted by the Department of Science and Technology, Shelly is dedicated to the development of effective, science-informed drug policy, and he seeks to reduce the harm caused by current drug policies that continue to result in unnecessary deaths. His statement raised eyebrows in the audience before Shelly elaborated. Shelly admitted to his dependency on drugs because of his Attention Deficient Hyperactivity Disorder. “We need to get a handle on our drug policy problem. If we don’t get a handle on that, people will continue to die and we will have a self-perpetuating cycle.” He insisted that South Africa’s “drug problem” did not lie in drugs, but in the policies and rhetoric that surround drugs. “If we don’t get a handle on our politicians, the press and leaders who perpetuate the rhetoric of the war on drugs, there will be blood,” he said. Politicians were slack with policy-making and wanted to keep it that way so that they could blame everything on the social problem of drugs, he said. “The first thing a politician says about any social problem is 'drugs and alcohol'. They don’t want to delve deeper into the problem. They are happy with just blaming it on drugs and alcohol.” The first step to rooting out drugs, he said, was to stop trying to root out drugs. He added that it was impossible to reach a drug-free world as laid out by the UN and National Drug Master Plan. Instead of asking people to stop use drugs, he said, rather ask them why they had started. Many people had never experienced addiction of any sort, and for those people, it was very hard to understand and grasp the logic behind drug abuse, he stated. “But with drug use getting more prevalent in South Africa, it was now common for people to dig deeper and look for the reasons why people use drugs and alcohol.” According to him, some of the reasons were mental illness, boredom and stress. “Our modern world is full of new strains and stresses that humans have never experienced in the past. Although many things in life are now easier than ever, the burdens are very high,” said Shelley. So simply having a family, maintaining a household, and holding a job were huge stress factors. He said some drugs were viewed as a means of relaxation - a way to “calm the storm in your mind”. “Although drugs can be very effective at doing that, there can be serious side effects.”