The South African swimming legend, who started his career in Pretoria, announced his retirement from a career that spanned more than a decade. The 30-year-old’s accolades include the London 2012 Olympic title and more than a dozen world championship medals across both the long and the short course. Van der Burgh holds the world short-course 50m and 100m breaststroke records and also held both records in the 50m pool. He boasts two world 50m breaststroke long-course titles while his heroics yesterday earned him his third short-course gold medal extending his tally to five world titles. “I did make a commitment two years ago after the Olympics to transition from swimming and look forward to my next career and start to plan where I go,” Van der Burgh said. “It means the world to me. It is my last race, so I am extremely happy. The world championship means a lot. It is the last one. It is sad but I am happy to end on a high.” Van der Burgh tied the knot with Nefeli Valakelis in Greece in July and has since relocated to London where he started a new career as a hedge fund analyst. He was in a class of his own yesterday, leading the race from start to finish to win the 100m breaststroke title eight years after he won it for the first time. He hit the wall in a new championship record of 56.01seconds chopping 0.28s off the previous mark. Van der Burgh burst on to the international scene as a 19-year-old when he won the 50m breaststroke bronze medal at his maiden World Long-Course Championships in Melbourne 2007. He set his first world record at the South African Championships in 2009 and raced to his first major title at the World Long-Course Championships in Rome later that year. Van der Burgh’s crowning glory came at the London 2012 Olympic Games winning the 100m breaststroke title in a world-record time of 58.46 shaving 0.12 seconds off the previous mark. Four years later, he became only the second male Olympic 100m breaststroke champion to earn a podium place at consecutive Games when he finished second behind world record holder Adam Peaty.