How I came to get the car for a test drive didn’t really have anything to do with my name or my birthday. Some months back my colleague Willem van der Putte, a motoring journalist, and I were invited to meet some local BMW executives. Over coffee we chatted about the BMW plant in Rosslyn, which type of cars are the most popular in South Africa, and about self-drive technology. It was then that Edward Makwana of the corporate communications office asked if I’d ever driven an electric car. I’d once been transported to a function in a Nissan Leaf, but that was the sum total of my experience of an electric vehicle so Edward offered to put me on the waiting list to experience driving an EV, which is how it came about that just after my birthday, Blue Beauty, a BMW i3 was delivered to the Pretoria News for my use for the next seven days. I was a bit nervous when I first got into the driver’s seat of a car which has no internal combustion engine, but once I got the car started (with the press of a button and some encouragement of colleague Shaun Murphy) and realised the car was automatic (my own car is manual) I tentatively made my way out of the office gate, slid silently into the city traffic and drove a few kilometres to Woolies in Arcadia. Immediately I got a sense of what to expect as people at the little shopping centre turned to look as I parked Blue Beauty under the extra-attentive guidance of a car guard, and then drove it back towards the city centre. Over the next few days, everywhere in traffic, people would cast admiring glances, or wind down their windows, and engage in conversation, something that has never happened with Standard Silver that I own. From family to friends there were requests to go for a drive with “oohs and aahs” about the sporty look, the comfort and quiet and all its built-in technology. While I was enjoying the benefit of parking assist, the digital sound system, navigation and sun roof, my daughter’s boyfriend played around with its fancier features such as the fact that you can programme the climate control to come on even when you are not in the car. From the outside it’s a striking car, a rich blue with a black hood, and inside it’s spacious, comfy and easy to drive. I felt happy and safe, appreciating the smooth handling, its agility, braking - which locks when you stop so there's no chance of rolling back on an incline - and acceleration, and I had to watch my speed on a trip to Joburg on the N1. I also learned a few things about electric vehicles. My biggest concern had been not to run out of power but the gauge is clear on how far one can travel before recharging the battery. I did an experimental charge at Menlyn but, after a call to Club Motors BMW dealership at Fountains, electric vehicle “Genius” Kabelo Monethe invited me to come up and plug in to their high-speed charger, which made things much easier. The i3 has a range of 260km, so it is a nifty city car rather than one suited to a long holiday trek but as technology is changing all the time I have no doubt that battery power will increase the range of electric vehicles in the near future. Electric vehicles have many advantages, and of particular importance is that they are eco-friendly and cheaper to run than petrol or diesel ones. Think, said Kabelo while the car was charging, you won’t need an extended service plan! Worldwide, electric vehicles represent only about 1 out of every 300 motor vehicles on the road and they remain fairly unusual in South Africa. The car must have suited me well as I was asked in my week driving it if the i3 was a big birthday gift, or if I had bought a new car. I would have loved to say yes to either, but the reality is that however much I fell in love with the idea of a petrol-free car, and however charming Big Beauty proved to be and convenient for my lifestyle, at R600000+, she remains out of my reach. I am sure that in the next few years production of electric vehicles and hybrids will expand, that battery pack capacity will increase so you can extend the range, and that governments will come with attractive incentives that bring down the initial outlay. Until then, I’ll have to stick to Standard Silver, but, BMW, thank you. I did enjoy the ride.  Val Boje is editor of the Pretoria News