Pretoria - It’s all systems go at the Science Forum at the CSIR International Convention Centre. From the early morning and well into the afternoon, delegates,science enthusiasts and pupils were blown away by a whirlwind of science activities. They learned about the tricks and the trade and what science and technology can do to solve different social challenges. More that 73 exhibitors showed off the products while 44 discussions on various challenges like HIV, drug abuse and lack of women in science were on the agenda. Intended to ignite conversations about science, the forum provides Africa with an "open science" event similar to forums like the EuroScience Open Forum, American Association for the Advancement of Science Forum on Science and Technology Policy and Japan's Science Agora, convened with great success elsewhere in the world. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  The first day of the two-day forum saw about 2500 participants from 60 countries exchange ideas and create a network platform for key science, technology and innovation actors, including senior government leaders, academics, scientists, industry, civil society, and students. Minister of Science and Technology, Mmamoloko Kubayi-Ngubane, called upon delegates to do more to accelerate the accumulation, use and diffusion of scientific knowledge and its application in technological innovations capable of reshaping our world for the better. She also called on for investment in research and development in South Africa. She warned that inadequate resources for research and innovation would deny the government the opportunity to fully tackle the social challenges. She did however in the same breath acknowledge President Cyril Ramaphosa’s unwavering support and constant interest in using science to create a better country.