Rammethe and her family lost R4000 in a fire that gutted the area at the weekend. All her children’s Christmas presents also went up in smoke. The 39-year-old’s home was one of about 200 shacks that burnt down on Saturday night. The fire, which started around 9.30pm, left the displaced without any belongings. The cause of the fire was not yet known. Rammethe, who had been living at the informal settlement sandwiched between Woodlands Mall and the cemetery for six years, was devastated. The two sections of Plastic View are divided by the mall, and both have been devastated by fires in recent months. “This is the fourth time this place has burnt down. I’ve lost all my belongings for the fourth time, including my ID, passport and appliances,” she said. Pointing at the clothes and boots she was wearing, Rammethe said: “This is all I have to my name.” Even more painful for her was the loss of Christmas presents she had bought for her four children in Lesotho. Most residents in the area are from Zimbabwe, Lesotho and Mozambique. She said she had been working relentlessly doing odd jobs like ironing, washing and cleaning in the Woodlands area to buy her children clothes and save money for Christmas. “Now everything is gone. What am I going to tell my children? What are they going to eat this Christmas, since my money also burnt to ashes?” Rammethe said. Since Saturday, displaced residents have slept in a nearby field. They have had to beg for food at the mall and in the wealthy neighbourhood. Yesterday, residents combed through the ashes and wreckage with the hope of salvaging useful items. Some residents were already rebuilding their shacks. Asked why she didn’t find another place to live after her belongings burnt down four times, Rammethe replied: “We have no other place to go to.” Another resident, known as Thola Thola, said: “That fire was like the devil. I was sleeping when my friend Mike woke me up. We just got up and ran. I wanted to save some of our belongings, but there was no time.” He said his friend wanted to go back to his shack and fetch his wallet. “I told him, are you crazy? Do you want to be burnt alive for a wallet? “If we were allowed to build our shelters using corrugated iron sheets or more substantial material than plastic, the fire would not have spread this quickly,” he said. Almost all the shacks in the two informal settlement are made out of hard plastic. Tshwane Emergency Services spokesperson Johan Pieterse said there were no injuries from the weekend fire. He said about 80% of the informal settlement was burnt down. “The strong winds aggravated the fire.” Pieterse said they were still investigating what caused the fire. “There are a lot of rumours; some say it’s arson, some say it was a grass fire and some say it’s an open fire that was not extinguished."