Mohlala made the call at the memorial service of Sergeant Lentswe Lephera, 41, who was killed by Warrant Officer Tebogo Semenya in Mabopane last Friday. Lephera died when Semenya shot and killed his wife, Puleng Semenya, also a police officer, before turning his firearm on Lephera. Her body was found next door in a pool of blood by her husband, Mike Lephera, who said the location of his wife showed him that she tried to run for her life. Semenya went outside his house and also shot Lephera’s 16-year-old daughter, who is now in the Intensive Care Unit at Netcare Akasia Hospital. Mike was called to the scene by his 10-year-old son, who fled when the shots were fired. He borrowed a cellphone to call his father to tell him that his mother and her friend were being shot by Semenya. Mohlala said there was no death better than another, but in this case, it would be “more understandable” if the officers were killed by a criminal. He said criminals did not know right from wrong, but a police officer knew the law. “On behalf of Minister of Police Bheki Cele and national police commissioner General Khehla Sitole and the entire police force, I would like to say I am very sorry to the Lephera family. “This matter is one that is disappointing, embarrassing and hurtful.” Mohlala told police officers to remember that the SAPS had special departments to deal with the health and wellness of police officers. “If you know that you have problems and you are not emotionally well, you can go to your commander and ask him to hold your firearm while you seek help.” He said the police department condemned what happened, and had hoped things like this wouldn't happen during the 16 Days of Activism for No Violence Against Women and Children. Although singers sang to uplift the crowd to get everyone to celebrate the life of “a passionate and dedicated policewomen”, sadness filled the Bethesda Church hall in the CBD. An emotional Lephera had to stand up to get some fresh air when his late wife’s friends and colleagues, Sergeant Leah Tembe and Constable Moses Damane, started talking about how polite and beautiful she was.