Applications for Drug and Substance Abuse grant funding will be open from February 2019, the City said. Non-profit organisations (NPOs) specialising in programmes to address the pandemic should prepare to apply, as applications would be advertised in the media, it said. MMC for Health, councillor Sakkie du Plooy, said the City will ensure that assisting the organisations culminated in “value for money”, and not open up opportunities for corruption or wasteful expenditure. “The 2018/19 advert will strictly be requesting applications per thematic areas - demand reduction, harm reduction, and supply reduction - of the National Drug Master Plan. Anything on the borderlines or outside the thematic areas will not be funded. “All NPOs receiving grants from the City will have to sign a service level agreement, committing themselves to submit regular progress reports and financial statements. The City will interact with them on a regular basis to ensure continuous training and guidance,” he said. Those planning to apply for the grant will have to meet certain minimum requirements, including having a fully registered organisation, among other things. “Successful candidates must also have a proven track record of at least two years of conducting specialised and outcome based drug programmes. They also need to be in possession of a DSA certificate, issued by the provincial Department of Social Development.” Another crucial aspect was a detailed action plan that specified clearly what would be done, for whom, when it would happen, and where the activities are going to take place. “A realistic comprehensive costing of the plan in addition to an indication of how the outcomes of the action steps will be measured, must be included,” Du Plooy said. The City needed the support of communities to win the battle against drugs, he said, adding it was within those communities that various organisations were doing excellent work, and which deserved financial assistance from the metro. “Funding the right organisations has over the years proven to be a creative solution and the right mechanism to get communities directly involved in resolving challenges they face on a daily basis.” He said his department was scheduled to conduct a workshop on January 31 to ensure that those NPOs applying were fully informed about the requirements. During the workshop, relevant departments will outline different requirements in detail. “Sars will, for example, address the issue of tax certificates, the provincial Department of Social Development will inform the NPOs on why it is important to obtain a certificate, while the Joint Operation Committee will share guidelines that need to be followed when planning an event.”