Instead, the group that arrived 29 days ago from the Northern Cape has vowed to mobilise more people from different provinces to flock to Pretoria and join in their struggle until they receive the president’s attention. Among their issues is being accorded a status as the first nation in the country. They also wanted to be consulted by government on every land issue as they are believed to be custodians of all land. Last year, they camped outside the Union Buildings for 24 days until Ramaphosa, then as deputy president, went to see them on Christmas Eve. Of those, 17 days were spent on a hunger strike. But this time, they were not so lucky in their bid to get the president’s attention. They were forced to spend Christmas Day away from their homes in Port Elizabeth and Durban. They even had to celebrate the 51st birthday of their leader Chief Khoisan SA on Wednesday in Pretoria. “We had people in the community here who invited us for Christmas,” said Chief Khoisan SA. He said that during their stay with local people, they devised new strategies on how they could intensify their struggle. “We are lobbying our people from various provinces to come and camp out with us at the Union Buildings. People are trying to organise buses to transport many people here,” he said. Chief Khoisan SA could not confirm the number of people expected to come through, but he said local people from Eersterust as well as Eldorado Park in Joburg would be among them. “This coming weekend we will be having a meeting to strategise the way forward. We self-governance ahead of next year elections if the president won’t respond to our grievances,” he said. Under self-governance, his people would not be obliged to do things according to the government, he said. He said the government would have to split its budget with the Khoisan-run state. He said the meeting would be joined by the military people who used to work for the South African Defence Force. He was in the company of his wife and 12-year-old son. The son, who is in Grade 6, has been camping outside with them since November 30.“My son has committed himself to stay with us and plead with the president to come and see us. He is even willing to skip going to school on January 9 when the schools reopen in Port Elizabeth,” he said.