Pretoria - The family of Ekangala resident Thabo Sibanyoni will have to wait a while longer before they find out why he was 'tortured and murdered' like an animal for a car battery. Thabo's father, Jonas Sibanyoni said he never thought he would lose his son for a battery. Sibanyoni said one of the accused Phillips Sithole came to him after he had abducted his son at the local shopping centre on 15 June, claiming he had stolen his car battery. The father said having no doubt that his son had committed the crime and allowed the men to search his home. When they failed to find the battery there, he then advised that they rather take his son to the police station and let the police investigate the matter, as they were getting violent and aggressive. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  He said he never once thought the men would actually harm or even kill his son. However, he was woken up at 11pm to find his son's body battered and bound. “I stood watching them driving away from my house believing that they were taking my son to the police so the law could take its course.” “We were informed that my son was severely tortured. With them beating him up with buckets, golf sticks and anything else they could find. There were even burn marks on his body.” The father said he regretted not intervening immediately and said the death of his son had torn the family apart. Things had gotten to the point that the family members were not speaking to each other, with some members even refusing to be part of the year-end festivities and gathering. Sithole who appeared alongside his co-accused David Mnguni for the murder of Sibanyoni, stood solemnly next to each other. The case was transferred to the Gauteng High Court in Pretoria for trial. Outside court community members, local ANC representatives and family members picketed, demanding that no bail be granted to the duo. The matter has been set down for August 12 to 16.