For the latter, this meant, that they could catch the momentous, once-a-year, ray of sunlight shining through the opening in the dome, on to the cenotaph at the Voortrekker Monument. Every year, on December 16 at exactly noon, this event recurs. It is believed that the ray symbolises God’s blessing on the life and aspirations of the Voortrekkers. Thousands attended the spectacle. From early morning it was already chock-a-block, with the elderly and the young trying to catch a glimpse of the scene in the Cenotaph Hall. The cenotaph is the symbolic centre point of the monument, which sits atop one of the many ridges around Pretoria, and faces the city centre. The hall itself was built with mathematical precision to ensure this phenomenon on December 16 at noon, unlike any other day. It represents the symbolic tomb of Piet Retief and others who died during the 1835-1846 Great Trek, with Dutch-speaking colonists moving up north into the interior of southern Africa in search of land to establish their own homeland, independent of British rule. Their determination became the single most important element in the folk memory of Afrikaner nationalism. And, far from being the peaceful, God-fearing process many wanted it to be, it caused tremendous upheaval for many years afterwards. For those at the historical site on Sunday to witness it, some for the first time, there was an air of awe as they revered the sight. The elderly were seen giving history lessons to the young. A tourist from Illinois, US, said he was pleasantly surprised by the sight. He was on holiday with his family: “The architecture of the monument is simply amazing. The precision of the sun rays even more impressive." He said South Africa had a rich and diverse culture which has come a long way. “It’s the hardship and resilience of South Africa that makes this country a tourist attraction,” he said. Sunday also saw many others celebrate the Day of Reconciliation to mark the end of apartheid and promoting national unity.