Public Servants Association chairperson Peter Moloi claimed that this emerged after a three-day floor-by-floor survey by three government inspectors last week. The inspection confirmed the horrendous working conditions workers had been complaining about for months, he said. However, it seemed the outcome of the inspection has brought workers no closer to being removed from the building, Moloi added. In his version, the inspection revealed that 29 floors were non-compliant. Entry to between four or five offices on some of the floors was not allowed. “The inspectors said they detected traces of black dust caused by an air conditioner which had not been serviced. They believed it was this dust that was causing some of the employees to experience sinus issues, headaches and sore throats. “They also said the extractors that normally expel carbon monoxide were not working. Some were being closed. “But for some weird reason they only closed a few offices; what about the rest of the floor that is not getting proper ventilation?” The inspectors visited the Civitas building following repeated protests by workers unhappy with the state of the building. Workers lamented that even though the building appeared beautiful on the outside, there were many faults inside owing to a lack of maintenance. Moloi said the inspectors seemingly were passing the buck to the department to decide on whether or not the building was safe for workers to occupy. He said they were dismayed by the numerous problems, but no one was willing to take action. To make matters worse, he said, owing to the weekend rains, employees arrived to find the boardroom and kitchen in tatters this week. “This building is falling apart and no one is willing to take the well-being of workers into consideration. "Just a bit of rain over the weekend and workers find a boardroom and kitchen also in pieces. “It is sad for workers as the inspector is not willing to do the honourable thing and give us a letter stating whether it is safe for workers to occupy the remaining offices.” Department spokesperson Popo Maja previously confirmed the inspectors were going through the entire building, something which had not been done before. But this week, the department was not ready to discuss the details of a report emanating from the inspection.