And with a general election due in May, this is likely to intensify, as Julius Malema and other political leaders seek platforms where they can demonstrate their commitment to radical transformation. Two court cases in Bronkhorstspruit this year serve as a good example. The EFF was relentless in its protests outside the Bronkhorstspruit Magistrate’s Court during the appearances of a white man, accused of the kidnapping and rape of a black domestic worker. He also allegedly forced her to perform bestial acts on dogs. The EFF protested outside court and filled the public gallery, fuming as they heard from magistrate David Shikwambane of the unspeakable horrors the woman allegedly endured at the hands of her employers’ son. Members of the ANC Women’s League - who regularly attend cases to support women who have been sexually abused - became emotional when an investigating officer told the court how the victim had run from the room where she had been held, naked and screaming for help. The victim only attended court once, and was escorted by members of the Women’s League who covered her face with a cloth bearing the image of Nelson Mandela. Shortly after this case, another case, also with racial overtones, came before the same court. Once again the EFF led the protests as two farmers, Johannes Potgieter, 33, and Hendrick Dumas, 48, appeared on charges of kidnapping, assault and attempted murder of a 9-year-old black girl. The two are alleged to have held the young girl against her will when she and friends trespassed when they followed their dogs on to the farm. They allegedly handcuffed the girl to a tree, and terrified her by firing a gun in her direction. Her distraught parents said their hearts were shattered at the sight of the men who did this to their daughter, saying she now had a fear of all white people. The community was furious when they heard that the two had been granted bail by the High Court, this after they were initially denied bail. Some protesters threw stones and bottles at police officers who guarded the court entrance, and police retaliated with rubber bullets and stun-grenades. A number of people were injured and some cars dented. Things can quickly spiral out of control, and in one instance the mother of the girl ended up in the midst of the fracas as protesters smashed windows of businesses in the vicinity of the court. Potgieter and Dumas ran for their lives, jumping over a wall behind the court, while the crowd waited, baying for their blood. The case was transferred to the Pretoria Regional Court for the safety of the accused and in the interest of justice. But the EFF would not be deterred, and it mobilised its members to attend court in the CBD when the case resumed. The case of the man accused of abusing the domestic worker was also transferred from the volatile situation of Bronkhorstspruit to the Pretoria Magistrate’s Court. EFF sub-regional convener for Bronkhorstspruit Oliver Morogu led a group of people who travelled to the Magistrate’s Court to formally challenge the decision of the NPA. They gave reasons for the prosecuting authority to return the case to the community, in the interest of justice and to ensure their support for the victim. Chief Prosecutor Matric Luphondo, consulted with the Bronkhorstspruit Magistrate’s Court management and security, and said he was satisfied that the case could be heard in Bronkhorstspruit. We can expect similar scenes outside courts when the cases resume in the new year. The EFF will not back down in its support of black victims of crimes which are seen as racially-motivated, and the protest is expected to get louder as the elections draw near.