Here are some delightful local releases: Jan Braai Shisanyama - Braai recipes from South Africa (Bookstorm). This latest offering from the braai master includes recipes for beef, lamb, chicken, pork and seafood as well as potjies, side dishes and desserts. The recipes are easy to follow with “what you need”, “what to do” and instructive images on every page. It’s local so ingredients are readily available and the recipes are tried and tested. A great gift for all those who love flame-cooked meals. Jump on the Bant Wagon: Nick Charlie Key (published by Human & Rousseau) Ninety healthy, tasty meals from a home-cook who has been on the Banting diet after being diagnosed with serious illness. Divided into breakfast, starters, light meals, mains, sides and desserts, Key’s recipes are simple and the pictures enticing. This one is suitable even for those not on this diet but keen to eat more healthy meals. It's also available in Afrikaans. The South African Vegan Cookbook Leozette Roode (Human & Rousseau) Vegetarianism and veganism has become popular and this unique recipe book provides ideas for breakfast, lunch, dinner, in-between snacks and even the braai. Think breakfast bowls, soups and salads made up of super-foods, gluten free cakes. Like Banting recipes, these can be used by all, whether on a special diet or just seeking new healthy options. As Good as Eating Out: Your Family (Human & Rousseau) This one is my favourite, offering restaurant-style food at home. With budgets tight to eat out, buy ready meals or takeaways. This book shows you how to make delicious burgers, pizzas, pastas and more, with recipes and pictures to help you get it looking perfect. Popular meat and seafood-menu dishes are included and some favourite local desserts such as cheesecake and malva pudding. Useful is the number of people each recipe serves, and the prep and cooking time. Boerekos with a Twist: Annelien Pienaar (Human & Rousseau) The author and her husband are nut farmers from Hartbeespoort, and she runs a cooking school. This one offers proudly South African down-to-earth great contemporary country food in chapters on soups and sauces, vegetables, meat and fish, baking and desserts and even bottling/preserving.The photos are fabulous and there is loads of useful cooking information to ensure home cooks produce the best results.