Minister of Science and Technology, Mmamoloko Kubayi-Ngubane, called upon delegates to do more to accelerate the accumulation, use and diffusion of scientific knowledge and its application in technological innovations capable of reshaping our world for the better. She also called for investment in research and development in South Africa. She warned that inadequate resources for research and innovation would deny the government the opportunity to fully tackle the social challenges. She did however in the same breath acknowledge President Cyril Ramaphosa’s unwavering support and constant interest in using science to create a better country. “I must say ladies and gentlemen that in our president we have a champion on science and technology. "I can comfortably say as a minister in what we do the president has found passion, but not only that, the president has taken an interest in learning about what we do in our portfolio,” she said. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  She was speaking at the opening ceremony of Science Forum 2018 under the theme of “Igniting Conversation About Science”. The opening ceremony which is taking place at the University of Pretoria’s Hillcrest Campus sees various global science stakeholders and key influencers rev their engines in anticipation of the two-day forum that starts at the CSIR International Convention Centre tomorrow. Hosted by the Department of Science and Technology, the fourth edition like the previous editions, serve as a large, open, public platform for debating the science and society interface. SFSA2018 will again provide Africa with an “open science” event, similar to forums convened with great success elsewhere in the world. The forum will see about 2500 participants from 60 countries exchange ideas and create a network platform for key science, technology and innovation, including senior government leaders, academics, scientists, industry, civil society, and students. There will be about 73 exhibitions which will create further space for future-shaping conversations.