Ashleigh Tshabalala had been accused of attempting to break into her boyfriend’s bottle store. She was manhandled and locked up for 48 hours in a cell, and was even called “a drama queen” by the police. Acting Judge Desmond Nair, in awarding the damages, cited a Supreme Court of Appeal judgment in which it was said that “money can never be more than a crude solatium for the deprivation of what, in truth, can never be restored, and there is no empirical measure for the loss.” He added that it needed to be kept in mind that when making awards, there were many legitimate calls on the public purse to ensure that other rights that were no less important also received protection. Tshabalala turned to the Gauteng High Court, Pretoria, to claim nearly R800000 in damages following her harrowing ordeal in September 2016. She and her boyfriend, the owner of a bottle store in Newlands, Joburg, had just broken up, and she went to the store to fetch her belongings. She had her own keys and went with her brother, but she could not open the door. She left, but she later got a call from the police to tell her that her brother was as the station and that he had been arrested for trying to break into the bottle store. She went to the police station to explain what had happened, but she was also arrested. Tshabalala testified that she was pushed to the ground by a police officer, who knelt on her chest and stomach. She screamed hysterically that she was pregnant. Although she was bleeding at the time, she was taken to the holding cells and locked up. Another female inmate eventually called the police to attend to the bleeding Tshabalala. The officer who came to see what was happening called her “a drama queen”, but he did summon an ambulance to take her to hospital. A doctor told her that she had suffered a miscarriage. She was discharged the next morning and taken back to the holding cells. She was later told there was no case against her and she could go home. The police testified that they had received a complaint of an attempted burglary at a bottle store. The owner accused Tshabalala’s brother, Nthatho, of using keys to try to enter the shop. The latter explained that he was there with his sister, who wanted to fetch her belongings. The police would not listen and decided that he was guilty. They also arrested Tshabalala when she went to the police station, as they were convinced she was part of the attempted break-in. A female officer testified that Tshabalala fell to the ground when they tried to handcuff her. She acknowledged that she had been on top of Tshabalala and tried to hold her down while another officer cuffed her. The officer, however, denied that Tshabalala had told her that she was pregnant. The station commander, meanwhile, testified that an ambulance came to fetch her that night, as “she did not feel well”. He said he had no idea that she was pregnant. The judge said the police officers who testified “fared very poorly”, while Tshabalala was subjected to humiliation and degradation. Not only was she assaulted, the judge said, but she was locked up for 48 hours in a filthy cell with other inmates, where there was no door separating the toilet.