Executive Mayor Solly Msimanga yesterday told residents during the launch of the programme at the community hall that it was aimed at enabling children to have a better future. The programme will see a group of volunteers assisting pupils struggling with homework. Children taking part in sporting codes such as netball, football and aerobics will have coaches helping them with developing their talents for free. The programme will run from January to December next year from Monday to Thursday from 2pm to 5pm. During the launch, pupils had an opportunity to interact with Msimanga, who motivated them to aspire to be successful people in life. He discouraged children from doing drugs, but rather to focus on improving their lives. “You are the teachers, nurses, successful businesspeople of tomorrow.” Msimanga reminded the community about a project in the pipeline to build a stadium in the area. This would be used by children as a facility where they can participate in different sporting codes. Parents were encouraged to join hands with the municipality in ensuring that the project’s implementation was a success. Msimanga expressed gratitude to the volunteers who would assist children with extramural activities and their homework. “There is nothing as humbling as people who are willing to give away their time to do good.” MMC for Community and Social Development Services Ntsiki Mokhotho said one of the primary objectives of the project was to increase the participation of children in their schoolwork. She said the programme would assist in keeping children in Grade 1 to 5 “safe and supported in the hours after school until their parents are back from work”. Mokhotho said: “Apart from keeping children safe and supported, there are life-enhancing benefits in the programme. Through the After School Programme, it is hoped that involvement in deviant behaviour will be lessened, as well as reduction of criminal acts and other risky behaviour.” She said the City intended to roll out the project in all seven regions, adding that part of the project was to identify and nurture the talents of the young ones. “The programme aims to manage the idle minds of children by keeping them busy during after-school hours. It will also give counselling to vulnerable children and promote safety and a healthy lifestyle among them,” Mokhotho said.