The organisers announced yesterday that over 5.65 million actions by registered Global Citizens led to 58 commitments and announcements worth over $7.2billion (R98bn) - money which can positively affect the lives of an estimated 137 million people worldwide. Projects in South Africa are a major beneficiary, with commitments to education, HIV/Aids and other health issues and gender equality among those highlighted. The festival concert at FNB Stadium, Joburg, on Sunday brought together a large contingency of dignitaries and popular artists who come together for the good of humankind, with their uplifting speeches and dynamic performances. The concert started at 2pm and lasted late into the night, with many crowd-pleasers for the 80000 who attended. These included Pharrell Williams, Cassper Nyovest, Ed Sheeran, and, of course the dramatic entrance and performance of Beyonce and Jay-Z. TV audiences were left disappointed when Trevor Noah announced after about 20 minutes of the latter’s show that the rest was only available to those in the stadium, in terms of a TV rights agreement. The Global Citizen Festival uses a combination of activism and music with events hosted in various countries seeking to unify people and urge them to be the generation to take action to end poverty and campaign for other causes. Sunday’s concert with its link to the Mandela centenary celebrations, featured calls made during one of his last public tours in 2005 to “Make Poverty History”. Among the top commitments came from the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, UK Aid, Virgin Unite, the Children’s Investment fund and others to deal with neglected tropical diseases and a commitment from three pharmaceutical giants to make modern cancer treatment available. There were significant pledges for the fight against HIV/Aids - with the goal of eradicating it completely, including $1.2bn pledged by Deborah Birx on behalf of the United States, the largest pledge of its kind to date. Alongside this, the Global Fund committed $369 million in South Africa over the next three years. The Motsepe Foundation not only hosted the festival but made commitments topping $100m to advance education, economic inclusion, and gender equality, with President Cyril Ramaphosa pledging a government spend of R6bn for poor children’s access to schooling, and R2m to be spent on youth. Education - especially education for girls - was a major beneficiary with a number of other commitments not only in South Africa but by other African countries too, investments by Germany and Canada, and corporates including HP and Cisco, as well as the new Trevor Noah Foundation. The World Bank group pledged $1bn next year for health and education in Africa while Vodacom was among those to pledge to invest in digital technologies, including digital literacy. Millions more were committed to other Sustainable Development goals including gender equality, developing women and girls, peace and safety from violence, clean water and sanitation, food programmes, land reform and the environment.