This is evident at The Dharmawangsa Jakarta, where “Santa Claus is coming”, is the theme of a gingerbread house on display at the luxurious hotel. It comes complete with a jolly Santa in his sleigh, alongside his elves, bearing gifts. The detail on the creation is amazing and is the artwork of renowned pastry chef I Made Kona, who spoke to the Pretoria News recently (when I was there on my recent trip, as a guest of the Indonesian ambassador in South Africa, his excellency Salman Al Farisi). Chef Kona is passionate about his pastries and his Christmas collection of delectable delicacies. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  His gingerbread house had everyone in awe, and he takes great pride in explaining how it all came about. It is made from wheat flour, honey, sugar, egg, ginger, cinnamon and cardamom, while Santa and his troops are made from powdered sugar, gelatin and lime juice. Chef Kona joined the five-star hotel in July as the creative force in the kitchen, where he leads the pastry team. His career spans more than 32 years in the industry and includes experience as executive pastry chef in various international hotels in Singapore, Jakarta and Bali. While he never formally studied at culinary school, his love and passion for pastry and the art of baking led him on his career path as one of the best pastry chefs in the world. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  Chef Kona completed high school in Bali and knew from the start that pastries were his passion. He started at Bali’s Nusa Dua Beach Hoteli’s pastry department, and left with the title Pastry Chef de Patisserie. Since then, he has continued to embrace his professional culinary journey at several international hotels, including The Ritz-Carlton, Jakarta. While pursuing his career as pastry chef, he obtained his Bachelor degree, majoring in commercial administration. He also obtained his Master’s, majoring in management of tourism and hospitality . He has received numerous awards for his culinary skills, including winning the Singapore and Indonesia Salon Culinaire International Competition. He was also selected as the best and most outstanding pastry chef for the food and hotel Indonesia category for two consecutive years. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  Chef Kona was also one of the guest judges in MasterChef Indonesia in 2013. In spite of all these achievements, he remains humble, and his face lights up when he speaks about his culinary creations. Christmas is a particularly special time for him, when he produces his German lech kuchen, stollen and other delights. “I was taught to make these by a Swiss chef, who gave me the recipes. People come from all over during Christmas to taste my treats.” Speaking about his gingerbread display, Chef Kona said: “Santa is here, bearing gifts to make Christmas happy for everyone.” When he is not in the kitchen, he spends his time painting, carving and decorating. Life, according to Chef Korna, must be balanced between body and soul. He keeps this balance by exercising regularly and meditating.