Outgoing vice-chancellor and principal Professor Cheryl de la Rey and chief executive of the SA National Roads Agency Limited (Sanral) Skhumbuzo Macozoma officially launched the construction site on Tuesday at the Hillcrest campus. This comes after the university’s Faculty of Engineering, Built Environment and Information Technology, Sanral and the CSIR embarked on a major engineering partnership to establish the facility, valued at R280million, in the area of transportation. Dean of the Faculty of Engineering Professor Sunil Maharaj said the facility was developed largely to train students for the “future world of work” and for research to help industries. He said it was Sanral’s idea to use the facility to test materials that contractors would use when they receive construction tenders from the entity. “They are using an accredited laboratory to accredit the material they will use for construction work. This is to ensure the integrity of the construction work that contractors will do for Sanral,” he said. Maharaj told the Pretoria News the initial discussions about the project started back in 2014. “It took us four years to get here and it is a great moment for us because now we can see our hard work come to fruition in terms of building something for the next generation and for the country as a whole.” The future transportation hub coincidentally will be housed in the new Engineering 4.0 facility on the Hillcrest campus near the N1/N4 Proefplaas Interchange. De la Rey said she was pleased to see the first stages of the facility take place even though she would not be available to cut the ribbon when it was completed. “I am very pleased to have been part of the initial discussions with Sanral and CSIR and to have been part of the beginning of something that is going to be here for the next 100 years. “I am confident the project will run smoothly, because my successor told me that part of the reason he applied is because of this excitement that’s here, and he would champion it during his 10-year term.” Maharaj said they aimed to complete the work in 2020.