THE South African Weather Service predicts the weather in Pretoria will become hotter from tomorrow. Meteorologist Victoria Nurse said temperatures from today start low but go higher. Every day is expected to be partly cloud until Thursday, but there will be thunderstorms between Friday and Sunday, she said. The higher temperatures for the week left the Department of Water and Sanitation concerned about the country’s water dam levels. Meanwhile, the City of Tshwane has been warning residents about increased water interruptions expected to affect a total of 13 water reservoirs in region 1 and 4 due to an electrical problem that occurred on the Rand Water Palmiet pump station. According to an update by the City late yesterday, reservoirs expected to have interruptions include: Bakenkop, Rooihuiskraal North, Heuweloord, Lyttelton, Unitas Hospital,  Erasmia, Christoburg and Valhalla. City spokesperson Selby Bokaba said the reservoirs to be affected in Region 2 include: Garankuwa, Mabopane,  Winterveld, Soshanguve and Garankuwa Industrial. “Rand Water is continuously monitoring the reservoirs which reached unacceptable levels over the recent weekend. Water supply will be restored once the water levels are sufficient and have stabilised in the reservoirs.  “Residents are informed that water tankers have been arranged with councillors of the affected communities. Residents and the business community, throughout the City, are urged to use water sparingly to ensure that the reservoirs retain their full capacity,” he said. The City has also called for prudent use of water following restrictions by Rand Water following increased consumption over the past couple of weeks. This increased use resulted in a shortage of bulk water supply in Tshwane and the City has immediately restricted businesses and residents from watering gardens between 6am and 6pm. The restrictions included the use of hosepipes to clean driveways or patios and the washing of cars or vehicles with hosepipes. The City apologised for the inconvenience that has been caused by this interruption.