Participants said the discussion around the sector of society was crucial if communities were to become more accepting of citizens - male and female - who did not conform to a particular gender or sexual identity, while making the country safer and more socially inclusive. The issue had to urgently be confronted, said Professor Finn Reygan from the Human and Social Development research programme. “The fight for a society where gender-based violence and other forms of discrimination, no longer exists will be incomplete without a discussion on the rights and safety of the LGBTIQ community. “More importantly, the discussion must be supported with real programmes aimed at changing attitudes, perceptions and behaviours to make our families, communities and indeed the country safer and more inclusive for all our citizens.” This was no less than what the Constitution of South Africa demands, Reygan said, of a situation where people who identified with the section at hand, constantly faced discrimination, assault, violence and even death. “We are pleased therefore that today’s discussion, though exploratory, was attended by a representative from the Department of Social Development, Access Chapter 2, Inclusive and Affirming Ministries and Triangle Project.” Michelle Boonzaaier from Inclusive and Affirming Ministries said the role of the religious fraternity could not be underestimated in driving change in societies, and they were therefore very pleased to be part of the exploratory discussion. “And we are confident that by working together going forward, government, civil society and the academic community can begin do the work and implement the programmes to change society.” South African National Aids Council Trust co-chair and founding director of Access Chapter 2, Steve Letsike, said: “It is very encouraging that following the Gender-Based Violence Summit that this discussion is taking place. Such exploratory discussions sometimes give rise to really big movements for change and this initiative is very exciting. “This change ultimately must find expression in communities, and means moving policy to action as communities matter. All sectors have a role to play in creating the much-needed changes in society.” Matthew Clayton from Triangle Project said civil society was happy to lend its voice to the discussion, which they saw as aimed at strengthening the trilateral relationship between government, academia and civil society. “This will ensure we develop, and more importantly, implement programmes that will really begin to change the character and texture of the South African society. “We cannot continue to collectively criticise the state of our society and particularly the lack of safety of the more vulnerable in our citizens.” They only looked forward to the work that will be done going forward, said Clayton. The council said the exploratory discussion would be part of an ongoing dialogue and appropriate interventions, including programmes aimed at changing attitudes, perceptions and behaviours.