People gathered at the Union Buildings in the morning and took part in the 5km walk as well as the 10km and 21km races all in honour of Nelson Mandela. The streets were painted in bright colours with people in their white, green and orange T-shirts emblazoned with pro-Madiba messages. The event marked Mandela’s last moments when his mortal remains lay in state for five days at the Union Buildings after his death in December 2013. Participants retraced the steps of the motorcade that carried Mandela’s body from 1 Military Hospital to the Union Buildings. The 5km walkers started at Kgosi Mampuru II Street, then used Madiba Street, passing Lilian Ngoyi Square, Tshwane House and Sammy Marks Square. Some participants held up their placards with the motto for this year’s event, #IAmTheLegacy. Others took selfies with them, while others photographed them and posted their pictures on social media platforms. Traffic in the CBD was heavily congested, but many motorists were patient and got out of their vehicles to gaze at participants. The beating of drums and a brass band that accompanied participants on the 5km walk brought some entertainment. Premier David Makhura, Executive Mayor Solly Msimanga, former Gauteng premier Tokyo Sexwale and Minister of Sport and Recreation Tokozile Xasa as well as the Sisulu and Mandela families walked with the people. Dignitaries also took part in the ceremony to lay a wreath at the feet of the monumental Madiba’s statue at the Union Buildings. The event marked the fifth anniversary of Mandela’s death and it was the fourth year it was staged. For the first time this year, the event featured a 21km race. Makhura said some had expressed interest in introducing a 42km run next year. Sports stars who participated were road running star Stephen Mokoka, former Comrades Marathon winners Ludwick Mamabolo and Charne Bosman as well as US Open wheelchair tennis semi-finalist Kgothatso Montjane. Also, football legends such as Shaun Bartlett, Kalusha Bwalya and Jabulani Mendu. Makhura thanked all the people who came out in huge numbers for the event. “We are also doing it as part of the centenary of Mama Sisulu and Madiba,” Makhura said. He hailed the event for being a unifier of people of all races. He said participants voted with their feet for non-racialism, non-sexism, prosperity and an end to poverty. Makhura spoke up against racial division, saying it not in the spirit of Mandela. “The dream of Mandela is to see all our people living in unity,” he said. All that Mandela wanted was for every South African to have food, land and equal opportunities, he said. He also urged people to take care of themselves during the festive season. “Enjoy your festive season. Those who are driving, drive safely. We want you back in Gauteng in one piece.” Msimanga said the walk was important not only for the city, but for the whole country. “It evokes serious thought about where Mandela wanted the nation to be. It needs to be a Nelson Mandela Day every day. We shouldn’t allow ourselves to be divided,” he said.