A river of water and ice was gushing into the welcome centre and Sun Central and lower levels of the hotels. Rooms were drenched, and a number of vehicles damaged, with a few injuries reported as a result of people slipping. Visitors at Sun Central and the welcome centre were evacuated, the golf courses - covered in ice - were closed, reception and dining areas and more than 200 rooms across the resort were flooded. Mopping up continued throughout Saturday night and on Sunday. However, Raul de Lima, group executive for Sun City, yesterday declared the resort in “decent shape” and most of it is open for business. The Valley of the Waves and Sun Central restaurants and the casino were open. However, De Lima said there were still challenges with respect to a shortage of hotel rooms, particularly at the Soho Hotel where 100 rooms are out of commission. A further 40 rooms at The Cascades and 10 at The Palace cannot yet be used because of water damage. Most affected guests had been accommodated at the Cabanas and Vacation Club. The pool at the Soho is open but the other hotel pools remained closed for cleaning. The Gary Player Golf Course was damaged when pumps were flooded and the greens will take time to recover. Some guests took the storm in their stride, realising the resort could not be blamed for the weather, and had praise for how they handled it. But for others it was a disappointment as holiday plans were dashed. “It was almost like watching the Titanic sink,” said Ashley Pohl, who was staying at The Cascades with two friends. “I remember being super wet from the ice cold water. Some of it even damaged my digital gadgets,” she said. Visitors turned to social media to record their experiences. For Celeste Mtsetfwa it was something unexpected and thrilling that she and three friends experienced. “We were just sitting there, watching people frolic in the water, drinks in hand, when suddenly the waves rose up higher than anything we could imagine. “We felt the rain but didn’t think much of it in fact, we were not sure whether it was a holiday special or not that whole thing. The next thing the water seemed to disappear and there was nothing of the beach in front of us,” she said, adding that everyone was rushing for safety. Rooshdeen Solomons of Roodeplaat watched the romantic plans with his fiancée wash away. “Sweet dreams were pelted by the uncontrollable hailstorm”. “While getting some refreshments, we heard a huge thump, which grabbed all the the customers’ attention, but we carried on normally and placed our orders. Soon after that there was a gushing wind it felt like it moved the establishment slightly. Then the roof just caved in.” Sun International switched to emergency procedures with all hands on deck. They evacuated guests from areas worst affected, ferrying day visitors to the safety of their vehicles in the lower car park, and working into the night to re-accommodate check-in guests whose rooms were flooded. Those who could were asked to go home, with new arrivals urged to check their bookings before travelling to the resort.