Steyn became the highest South African Test wicket taker yesterday when he dismissed opener Fakhar Zaman in the seventh over of the first Test between the Proteas and Pakistan at SuperSport Park in Centurion. Steyn finally passed Shaun Pollock’s mark of 421 Test wickets when Dean Elgar at third slip held on to a catch, ending a couple of years of frustration due to a shoulder injury for one of the greatest bowlers the sport has known. “It’s just fantastic,” Steyn said in an interview with broadcaster SuperSport at the lunch break. “There’s still a lot to do in this Test, but when I was standing at the top of my mark after taking the wicket, I nearly pushed out a tear there was definitely a lump in the throat at that moment.” Steyn learnt his cricket at SuperSport Park coming through the academy structures at Northerns cricket. It made the moment yesterday that extra bit special as the crowd stood as one to cheer him. Pollock, who is commentating on the match for television, gave Steyn a “thumbs-up" from the booth immediately after the wicket, a gesture that was replied to in kind by Steyn. At lunch time, Pollock presented Steyn with a specially marked bottle of wine, an item Pollock had lugged around Sri Lanka earlier this year when it was felt Steyn would break the mark. “He sneaked a note under my door when I made my debut and now he’s done it again,” Steyn smiled. “Along with Biff (former skipper Graeme Smith), Mak (Makhaya Ntini) and others, they helped me grow up not just as a cricketer, but a person too. They shaped me. I have my own family, but there’s also my cricket family - these guys,” Steyn said, pointing to his teammates. “I’ve enjoyed so many attributes of Dale’s bowling through his international career the ability to swing the ball at high speed up front, reverse swing the ball with devastating effect, bowl with great control and within himself and then crank it up to high speeds on flat surfaces at times (they) have all been his hallmarks,” said Pollock. “The fact that he is the best Test fast bowler that South Africa has produced doesn’t require my endorsement his stats and record tell you that. “Fast bowling has always been a characteristic strength of South African cricket and records undoubtedly serve as motivation for our current and future stars,” Pollock said. “I look forward to seeing the hugely talented KG (Rabada), Lungi (Ngidi) and others going on to surpass these records because ultimately that’s what we want for Proteas cricket.” It took Pollock 108 Tests to reach 421 wickets - Steyn’s went past that mark in his 89th Test. Tributes poured in from players both past and present; AB de Villiers saluted Steyn on Twitter, as did Allan Donald, Paul Harris and former Australian Test player Tom Moody. “He has been a star performer wherever he has played - and that includes his feat of becoming one of the handful of foreign fast bowlers to take 10 wickets in a Test match in India at Nagpur, in 2010,” Cricket SA’s chief executive Thabang Moroe said. “He has also managed to overcome a series of serious injuries that would have ended the career of lesser men and I am sure I speak not only for all his South African supporters and admirers but for cricket fans around the world in applauding the manner in which he has fought his way back to his best form.” Steyn is currently 11th on the all-time Test wicket taking list, and the next target for him will be New Zealand’s Richard Hadlee who finished his career with 431 wickets. The top wicket taker of all time is Sri Lanka spinner Muttiah Muralitharan with 800. The leading fast bowler is England’s James Anderson, who’s taken 565 wickets.