“I don’t ever want to see this boy again; he has no place in the community,” said the 41-year-old from Mabopane. She had attended the first appearance of Thabiso Mkhonto, 25, who is facing charges of attempted murder in the Pretoria Magistrate’s Court. Mkhonto, who was arrested last week, allegedly stabbed his girlfriend Mpho Chuma, 23, more than 24 times at his home on January 7. Raseala said hat seeing Mkhonto standing in the dock made her blood boil, especially knowing that her daughter was no longer the same person since the attack. “Mpho has always been a bubbly person, full of energy. She loved people, but since the attack I barely recognise her. “She has nightmares and she wakes up screaming every night, saying she can hear footsteps." She said her daughter was stabbed from head to toe. “He wanted to kill her He even told her he will finish her off should she survive. This is why I want this boy to rot in jail.” Raseala said the stitches were so bad that even Chuma’s 3-year-old daughter was scared of her mother and kept asking why the doctor chopped her into pieces. Chuma had not attend the court proceedings because she went to see a psychologist, she added. The furious mother alleged that on the day of the attack, Chuma had just knocked off from work, but didn't go straight home. “Normally, when Mpho works nightshift, she would call or send an SMS to ask that I open the gate for her, but that morning I did not receive anything from her. “I later checked my WhatsApp and found there was a message from her to say she would not be coming straight home, because she was going out with friends,” she said. Raseala said she told Chuma that it was unusual of her to decide to go out with friends without telling her in advance, but that she later decided to let the issue go. “Later, I was contacted by Thabiso’s sister who told me Mpho was at their home. She said there was an argument between her and Thabiso. "It was then that I started to panic, because my daughter had told me that the boy displayed violent behaviour. “Initially I was angry with Mpho for going to the boy’s place, after I had told her to stay away from him. "But when she told me she went because Thabiso had asked her to accompany him to a psychologist, I realised she was only trying to help.” Raseala said the couple had broken up in November after Mkhonto attacked his mother in front of Chuma. “Mpho gave him an ultimatum that they would only get back together if he got help and sorted his anger issues out, thus she agreed to accompany him to see a psychologist that day,” Raseala said. She claimed the attack was prompted by WhatsApp messages that Mkhonto had seen on Chuma’s phone. “Apparently after Thabiso saw the messages he started to behave strangely and aggressively. "He took out a new knife and told her to say her last words. "He planned to kill her and said he would finish her off if he does not go to jail.” In pictures seen by the Pretoria News, Chuma had stab wounds on her body; face, back and neck. Mkhonto is expected to apply for bail on Friday.