The National Planning Commission (NPC), under the leadership of Jeff Radebe, Minister in the Presidency for Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation, and its deputy chairperson, Professor Malegapuru Makgoba, convened for the third NPC Lekgotla in Benoni from February 9 to 11. The meeting came midway through the commission’s second term, and allowed it to review progress made in the implementation of the National Development Plan: Vision 2030 (NDP) by government and other sectors of society,  and make recommendations to get the plan back on track. In a statement released through the GCIS, the commission expressed concern that trends pertaining to key objectives of the NDP, namely, to reduce poverty, inequality and unemployment had seen “a backward slide” with the economy in a low growth trap since 2013. The result was that poverty rates have increased from 36.4% in 2011 to 40% by 2015; unemployment has increased to 27.7% as of the third quarter of 2017, and inequality remains high. “There is an urgent imperative to turn around the situation. The immediate priority is to restore confidence which will enable us to undertake specific measures to reignite economic growth. “In this regard, raising the level of investment is critical, and at the World Economic Forum in Davos we succeeded in generating renewed investor interest in our economy,” Radebe said. The lekgotla resolved to spend the remaining two and half years of our five-year term towards restoring confidence in and ownership of the NDP and promoting accelerated implementation to address poverty and social inequality and promote social cohesion. Decisions by the meeting included: On the Economy: The current political economy and the economic crossroads facing the country and its impact on the lives of the poor was identified as the single most important challenge for the country. Research papers would be released soon, dealing with actions to revitalise the economy, SMME development and on Energy and Water Security On Spatial Planning: The NPC resolved to finalise the National Spatial Development Framework to redress the legacy of apartheid spatial injustice and promote equitable spatial development to strengthen co-ordinated planning and implementation across the whole of government. On Township and Rural Economies: The NPC remains concerned that the marginalisation of small, medium-sized and black-owned enterprises continues, due to various barriers and the persisting high levels of concentration in the economy. Government SMME policies are not achieving the desired transformative impact and further engagements with relevant stakeholders on recommendations emerging from the research and dialogues are needed. In particular, we plan to engage with Development Finance Institutions about their role and mandate in stimulating development. On Crime, Corruption, and State Capture: The NPC reflected on developments with regard to allegations of criminality of top members of the police force, as well as the ongoing exposure of acts of corruption in the public and private sectors. “We welcome the establishment of the Commission of Enquiry into State Capture. State Capture, Crime and Corruption are symptomatic of a muddled leadership and a weak developmental state.” Radebe said, offering for the NPC to make representations to the Commission on State Capture. On Prioritising Implementation of the NDP: The NPC identified 54 priorities on the basis of their impact on the NDP’s apex targets of reducing of unemployment, poverty and inequality, and we believe that they will ensure that the country makes the required progress towards achieving the goals of the Plan. “As government transitions into the next cycle of medium-term planning for the country, we will be engaging on these matters with leadership in the Executive, in particular with the Department of Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation, and other key stakeholders within and outside government.” We also received a briefing by the Mapungubwe Institute of Strategic Reflection in partnership with the University of South Africa on their project on South Africa’s Scenarios to the year 2030 initiative, premised on the NDP: Vision 2030. The NPC considers this initiative to be aligned to our work and we have agreed to collaborate with the project.