At the weekend, the @AdvBarryRoux parody account caused a frenzy when the user tweeted information regarding the murder case. The user claimed that Senzo was shot by someone who was in the house that day and not by robbers as had been previously claimed. Meyiwa was shot on October 26, 2014, at singer Kelly Khumalo’s Vosloorus home. Those present in the house on the night of the murder were Khumalo; her son with Molemo “Jub Jub” Maarohanye Christian; her mother Ntombi, sister Zandi; Longwe Twala, who is the son of  legendary music producer Chicco Twala; Meyiwa; and his friends Tumelo Madlala and Mthokozisi Twala. Following the shooting, it was reported that Twala’s gun was taken in for ballistic testing. When asked about the gun, ballistic test results and whether or not it was returned to Twala, national police spokesperson Brigadier Vishnu Naidoo said: “We do not provide details of investigations as this may be potentially damaging to the investigation,” he said. Twala refused to comment on the matter, saying he “did not respond to fake news”. “If you are a professional journalist, you will know that it is a fake tweet. My son and I are alive and kicking,” he said. Moments later, he sent an SMS saying: “How do I know the tweet was created by you so you can have something to write about. Your questions shows some desperation. “It’s okay, you can use your power as a journalist to put my family’s life in danger.” Khumalo’s publicist Tankiso Makhene said: “Kelly does not comment about Senzo. You can ask me about her music and I will give you comment.” Police Minister Fikile Mbalula’s office yesterday reiterated its statement that arrests would be made soon as investigations into Meyiwa’s death were continuing. Yesterday, Sam Meyiwa said the family was still dealing with their loss. “I think about my son’s murder every day. I think about it every minute and every second,” Sam said. “One day, God will help me and everything will be revealed. The truth will come out. “The people who were present when my son was shot are causing me so much pain. They know who killed Senzo but they are keeping quiet. Senzo was a breadwinner. He supported the family and now we are suffering,” Meyiwa said. “All we ever get (from the police) is promises but nothing happens,” Meyiwa said.