These were the provinces with the most underweight and stunted children, he said. Maluleke said South Africa needed to pay serious attention to Early Childhood Development (ECD), despite an increase in the number of children accessing it. He was delivering the Education Series Volume, which focused on ECD in the country, in Hatfield. The stats were based on the findings of the General Household Survey of 2016, with the most significant increase occurring in infant breastfeeding. The survey showed that 73% of children under one year were breastfed, while also consuming other food, but 32% were exclusively breastfed. Maluleke explained that his office did not have the mandate to allocate funds to address all the challenges it identified, but hoped the relevant departments and the masses used the stats to engage and influence policy. “Government feeding programmes target mostly primary and secondary schools, with limited services and only some ECD centres. “More targeted feeding scheme interventions need to be done either through the primary healthcare system or social services to reach all children at risk of malnutrition.” Both the government and citizens needed to work together to help increase malnutrition interventions for pregnant women at risk; access to ECD; and strengthen the protection and safety of children, he said. Maluleke added that 15% of the country’s population was made up of children aged between zero and six years, who were mostly overcrowded in the Eastern Cape. Four out of seven of these children lived in urban areas and the majority were coloured and black children at 38% and 35%, respectively. In Gauteng, 94% lived in households with piped water, while 95.8% lived in households with access to improved sanitation. But only 86% of these children lived in households connected to the main electricity supply, and that was lower than the 88.6% average. Maluleke informed stakeholders that between 2015 and 2016, the most crimes were committed against children; there were few successful convictions when taking into account the number of complaints received by the police. There were 884 murder complaints reported to the police and 1835 complaints heard in court, while only 248 convictions were achieved, he said.