ZELDA VENTER THE State called for a life imprisonment sentence for the Mamelodi East man who drowned or suffocated six--month-old Tebatso Choche in a bucket of urine. Advocate Bakedi Maoke told the Gauteng High Court, Pretoria, that the gravity of this offence and the interest of society far outweigh the personal circumstances of killer, Mandla Chauke, 29. The baby was found in a seated position in a bucket of urine, with her head turned upwards towards the lid which was tightly secured. It is not clear whether she drowned in the urine or if she simply suffocated. But Acting Judge Piet Pistorius said it was certain that Chauke wanted the baby dead as he placed the defenceless child inside the bucket. He then placed a second bucket filled with water on top of it. There was no way that she, who could not crawl and could hardly sit-up by herself, could have escaped her deathtrap. Chauke was convicted of premeditated murder last week. In arguing for a life sentence, Maoke said civil organisations and  the community at large are up in arms, fighting violence against women and children.  Parliament also enacted the Domestic Violence Act in 1998 in an attempt to curb the scourge of violence against women and children. She said society is looking upon this court to impose a clear message that this type of conduct will not be tolerated. Maoke said Chauke hatched an elaborate plan to kill the baby when he placed her in the bucket with the lid tightly on it. “The accused blamed the mother for the killing because a dead baby can tell no tales.” Chauke claimed the baby was already dead by the time the mother came to his home on December 15, 2016, to visit him. According to him she carried the dead child on her back for the entire day and then laid the corpse on the bed before they went to sleep. He added that he did not give it much thought as he was only interested in the mother and in sex. Maoke said Chauke wasted the court’s time with his lies, while he knew he was the killer. The defence, on the other hand, called for a 18 year jail sentence and said Chauke was a first offender. The mother, Boikgontsho Choche, meanwhile submitted a victim impact report to the court, in which she said she suffered from psychological trauma after the baby was discovered in the bucket. She said the baby was her first born and she dearly loved her. According to Choche the fact that her baby was murdered, was more devastating to her than if the child had died of natural causes. She said the people in her community were laughing and talking about her. She also complained that her family - none who were working and lived off her granny’s pension - had to fork out R7 000 for the funeral. Chauke will be sentenced on Wednesday.