Pretoria - Touring the Motseng Cultural Village in the Sun City Resort is an experience out of this world. Pretoria News was part of a media team invited to experience and explore their new and revamped outdoor adventures. Through song and dance, a group of vibrant and enthusiastic young performers give you an insight into South African traditions and the history of the people of North West province. Their performances make you instantly fall in love with traditions as you are mind blown by their moves and voices keeping you glued to them throughout. For close to an hour, they perform Setswana and IsiZulu dances accompanied by poems and of cause the audience is engaged; as they often pull one or two people from the audience to dance with them during their performance. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  Apart from all the entertainment, you are taken on a guided tour around the cultural village where you find the very same performers inside traditional huts telling you about all the history. You also get an opportunity for a photo shoot sitting on a royal chair, making you feel like a king or queen. Motseng even caters for those who love the nightlife – there’s an authentic township-style shebeen; informal drinking spot where you can shoot a round of pool and hear the pumping sounds of kwaito, South African hip-hop music. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  Then there was the Forest of Lights, which is a spectacular light installation at the five-star Cascades hotel in the Sun City Resort which definitely fascinate young and old alike. It features a spectacular light display that transforms the lush tropical gardens and waterfalls into a magical place. The magical light displays from 18h00 to midnight, give you the relaxation you deserve. Pretoria News