The men and women in blue had embarked on a illegal week-long strike, which started off as a go-slow, with half of the 40 officers working per shift going out to enforce national traffic laws on the country’s major roads. They later embarked on a strike, refusing to leave their deployment base in Midrand to do their traffic policing duties until their grievances had been resolved. The officers who asked to remain anonymous for fear of reprisal told the Pretoria News they were treated in an inhumane manner and hadn't enough equipment to carry out their duties. One of the burning issues was their removal from the offices in Faerie Glen only to be “dumped” in an open veld near Midrand where there was a single mobile toilet for about 40 female and male officers. Another issue was that they were no longer allowed to take the marked state-issue vehicles home. They said they were forced to take taxis to work which exposed them to danger as they were in uniform and carried firearms. Yesterday, the Road Traffic Management Corporation board chairman, Zola Majavu said they were not upset that the officers had embarked on the strike. “It is water under the bridge now. All the misunderstanding has been resolved.” Majavu said there was a huge misunderstanding about the fenced-off open area adjacent to the SA National Roads Agency offices in Samrand. He said the open veld was provided to the officers for parking. “The open veld is only provided for the officers to park their cars when they report to work,” he said. Majavu said the single mobile toilet was not meant for the officers but for the security officers guarding their cars. He said there was a proper building with adequate ablution facilities. He also said that the accusation that they did not consult officers whenever decisions were made was false. He said they kept constant communication with unions about labour conditions like shifts, equipment and cellphone allowances open and 
transparent. Some officers rejoiced at the resolution and expressed their excitement at going back to work. They said the no-work-no pay procedure in place since they started was burning a hole in their pockets. Others remained sceptical about the deal, saying it added no value.