The controversy has dogged Ramaphosa for the past few years. Yesterday he expressed his desire to do what the families of the dead miners wanted him to do. He said in his reply to the debate on his maiden State of the Nation Address that concluding compensation for the families was in its final stages. It was revealed in Parliament a few months ago that the government had been sued for R1billion by the families of the miners. The government was meeting with the families to reach a settlement. This was reiterated by Ramaphosa yesterday who said this would be concluded in the next few months. “The Marikana tragedy stands out as the darkest moment in the life of our young democracy. Members will recall that the commission of Inquiry headed by retired Judge (Ian) Farlam investigated the direct and root causes of the tragedy,” said Ramaphosa. The commission called for compensation for the victims and their families, looking at the work of the police and dealing with cases for prosecution. “Government is making progress in continuous engagement with the legal representatives of the victims, especially on the matter of reparations to families who lost their loved ones. This must be concluded in the coming months,” said Ramaphosa. He was willing to play any role in relation to atonement and healing with the families. However, he would be guided by the wishes and needs of the families. It was the first time Ramaphosa had raised the issue in Parliament, although he had apologised in public before for his role, which was strongly criticised by the Farlam commission. Ramaphosa was non-executive director at Lonmin’s platinum mines at the time of a protracted strike and wrote a series of e-mails in which he called for stronger action to bring it to an end. On the eve of the shooting, Ramaphosa said in an e-mail discussion between Lonmin and government officials that incidents of violence around the strike were “plainly dastardly criminal acts and must be characterised as such”. He later sought to qualify that by saying that at the time of writing 10 people had already been killed and he was trying to prevent further bloodshed. Ramaphosa has repeatedly been lambasted by the EFF for his stance during the strike, with the party’s MPs saying he had blood on his hands. Its leaders have, however, taken a conciliatory stance since he replaced Zuma, saying they were prepared to “give him a chance”. Ramaphosa also spoke about how he was planning to fix ailing state-owned entities. The country’s largest SOEs, including Eskom, Denel and Transnet, are in a serious financial crisis. He said the role of these entities would need to be changed, and more players brought in to stabilise them. Ramaphosa warned late last year he would not allow any SOE to default on their loans because this would cause cross-defaults in all entities. This would plunge the country into serious financial crisis and force the government to pay for the outstanding loans. The government had said it did not have the money for all the loans taken up by the SOEs. Eskom alone is in debt of R350billion and its default would plunge the fiscus into crisis. Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba had also warned that Eskom was the biggest risk to the economy. Eskom’s default would be catastrophic to the economy, he said in his Medium Term Budget speech last October. In his replies, Ramaphosa also called for national unity and a new social compact to revive the economy and ease the plight of South Africa’s poor majority. “One thing that we will unite on is advancing the interests of our people.” He urged all parties represented in Parliament to work together to tackle a weak economy, poverty and joblessness. “There will be a necessity for much contestation and vigorous debate but I concur with the sentiment that we need to unite as parties to support this goal of a developmental state, as well as an inclusive economy,” Ramaphosa said. He also pleaded with the country’s citizens to view the envisaged redistribution of land as an opportunity to help heal wounds and not as a threat on them or their properties. “We must see this process of acceleration of land distribution as an opportunity rather than a threat.” MPs had delivered impassioned arguments in favour of or against the expropriation of land without redistribution. “We should see this as something that frees us all from bitterness and pain and allows us to move forward to the great opportunities our country holds.” - Additional reporting: African News Agency (ANA)