Pretoria - North West gogo Koketo Frieda Moreotlotlo is not relenting in her quest for a Gauteng High Court, Pretoria, judge to personally pay her about R1.2 million from a claim he handled as a lawyer 30 years ago. Moreotlotlo, now 86, claims she is entitled to the money as he allegedly failed to act on her Road Accident Fund (RAF) claim at the time when he still had his own law firm. She has attended court on several occasions in the past, barely able to walk with her walking frame. Her case against Judge Ramarumo Monama was postponed on several occasions due to a number of reasons, including that a judge of another division had to be appointed because the case could not serve before one of Judge Monana’s "brothers or sisters" of this division. A judge has now been sent from Polokwane to preside over the matter after Moreotlotlo became anxious last year for the case to proceed as soon as possible, especially due to her advanced age and frailty. “I hope I will be spared to see this through,” she said at the time. But it was all systems go on Thursday as the proverbial David took on Goliath. The elderly woman beamed as she shuffled with difficulty into court and said she was elated that she would eventually have her day in court. Although the old woman sued the judge for payment, Judge Monama was the one who took the stand first, as he is basing his chances on a legal point. If this point succeeds, it will mean the end of the case and Moreotlotlo won’t get a cent. If the judge loses on this point, the matter is due to proceed on its merits. Moreotlotlo’s case is that on August 5, 1989, she and other passengers were on their way to a political rally. A bus had been hired to transport members of the community to the rally held by then Bophuthatswana president, Lucas Mangope. The bus driver allegedly lost control and was involved in an accident during which Moreotlotlo was injured. She suffered head and chest injuries, and her ear was also partially ripped from her head. She was taken to hospital, where she remained for several weeks. She said she approached Judge Monama who at that time was an attorney practising in the area, to handle her claim against the RAF. It is stated by her in court papers that Judge Monama, an expert at the time in RAF cases, agreed to take on her matter. She said nothing happened regarding the claim for some time, and when she enquired, she was told “ these things take time”. She said she was also informed from time to time that the fund was in serious financial difficulty and unable to make payment to her. “The plaintiff became disillusioned during 2009 and subsequently instructed another lawyer to establish from the defendant the status of her claim,” it was stated. She is now claiming the damages directly from the judge as she blames him for not acting within the legal time-frame. With the roles reversed for the judge on Thursday, he took the witness stand and testified that by the time the woman’s claim against the RAF had reached his then law firm in Mafikeng, the claim had already lapsed. The judge was also adamant that Moreotlotlo never properly instructed him as to the way forward, in spite of him calling her at the time to attend a consultation. Judge Monama testified that all this happened a very long time ago and he had to now testify from memory. “The problem is this happened 30 years ago and I no longer have the file on this,” he said. He explained that when he relocated from Mafikeng to Joburg in 1997, he transferred all his files to another attorney. As Moreotlotlo’s case had long lapsed by then, the file was closed and later destroyed alongside other old case files. The judge denied any wrongdoing and said he had always been a member in good standing of the Law Society. “I have never been faulted during my career.” (Proceeding) Pretoria News