Pretoria - Deputy chairperson of Congress of Traditional Leaders (Contralesa) in Vembe District, Prince Gulukhulu, has called on the government to put a ban on the usage of disposable diapers, saying they posed a danger to wild animals in the Kruger National Park.
Gulukhulu spoke at a meeting organised by the South African National Parks (SanParks) on Tuesday at Makuleke, where traditional leaders briefed the journalists about their relationship with managers at the park. Gulukhulu said the tendency by some people to dispose of diapers everywhere posed danger to animals. Diapers, he said, could be washed away into rivers inside the park in the event of rains. “When it rains the (nappies) go into the rivers inside the Kruger National Park. You find that along the way our cattle drink this water, then they become sick and our animals inside the Kruger National Park also drink this water,” he said. He said it was important to keep the environment clean to prevent putting at risk the lives of animals. He proposed that the government must put a ban on the use of diapers as a solution to eliminating dangers against animals drinking from the rivers. “The problem can go to Parliament to be discussed. The Parliament must be able to say we must stop the use of (nappies). You still remember that back in the days people would not buy plastic bags. They were getting them free of charge but today when you go to Shoprite or any shop they ask you if you need a plastic bag and if you say yes they charge you. Parliament can do the same with (nappies),” he said. In the olden days, he said, people used cloth napkins on their babies. “We must work together with the Kruger National Park to stop littering. When we grew up we were using the napkins but today we find that there are (nappies). The (nappies) are very expensive because you use them once. “But when you use the napkins, you can get the first born, third born and even the fifth born still using the same napkins. Napkins are very economical because when they are soiled you just wash them,” he said. He said illegal dumping outside the park also negatively affected tourism in the area. The regional ranger in the north of the park Tinyiko Golela said there had been a recent incident whereby a diaper was found inside a dead elephant during the post-mortem operation. Gulukhulu also urged the government to involve communities in its service delivery initiatives such as “Working for Water”. The programme is aimed at eradicating alien plants from the environment. Gulukhulu said: “The issue with the ‘Working for Water programme’ is that every year the government gives people tenders to go and destroy alien trees inside the park. But such an approach is like treating the symtoms. “You are not treating the real disease. These trees that are growing inside the Kruger National Park are from our villages. “So if they can divide this budget and give traditional leaders money or hire people in our communities to destroy these trees in villages they will not spread to Kruger National Park. We humbly request them to come to us so that we can work together because if we can destroy them from both sides we are going to win this war.” Traditional leader Mkhacani Mapindani said he was happy with the co-operation the Kruger Park has with the community of about 11000 people in Mninginisi. He said that in 2015 the park donated trees to local communities. “Earlier on I forgot to mention that the park has assisted one of the schools with the building of a science laboratory,” Mapindani told the Pretoria News. SanParks was in the area to demonstrate how its collaboration with different stakeholders such as the SAPS officers, community members, traditional leaders and field rangers could yield positive results in the fight against poaching. Pretoria News