This message will be spread by JP Saayman as he joins champion dancer and choreographer Paul Modjadji in gearing up to represent South Africa in the 2018 DanceStar World Masters Championship in Croatia. The duo will be joined by five of Africa’s best dancers under the leadership of Modjadji in May to show off their phenomenal moves on the world stage. Saayman, Izakiel Okoth, Ishmael Nduhira, Mbawana Kawambwa, Adedamola Adenigi and Kudzanai Chikowe from across Africa will be competing against more than 8000 contestants hailing from across the world. Modjadji, the first African dancer to be crowned the DanceStar World Masters Jazz Solo Adult Champion in 2011, unearthed the prodigious talent through an exhaustive Africa-wide search under the banner, "Breaking Down Borders". Modjadji said he aimed to promote and contribute towards the development of dance talent on the continent. “To know that a door has been opened for countries from a continent known for dance makes me feel that my work as a dance activist and brand ambassador for DanceStar has been worth something. This is a historic moment for these dancers and their countries,” Modjadji said. Saayman added that apart from hoping to take top prize he was determined to spread his message across the globe and hopefully help people to look at hip-hop differently. “I want people to know the meaning of God, His power and His name because hip-hop has so many bad influences nowadays. Everything you see on TV is about booty shaking but it wasn’t like that in the 80s.” Saayman said he felt that with better influences hip-hop could help reach a lot of youngsters who could benefit from dancing. He said being a dance teacher since the age of 19, he had witnessed how dancing, much like other talents, required discipline, dedication and respect for the craft. But it also helped children express themselves better when experiencing problems, and benefited children with Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder. “Parents should stop being short-sighted and think there is nothing in dance. "Personally, dancing has created a lot of opportunities for me to see the world,” Saayman added. While Saayman said he hoped to reach the top five spot, but as long as their positive message was communicated in the spotlight he would be content. All five countries the top dancers hail from - Nigeria, Uganda, Kenya, Tanzania and Zimbabwe - will be joining the competition as first-time contenders among the more than 55 countries that will competing this year. The week-long spectacle takes place from May 23 to 27 in Croatia.