Speaking during the debate on State of Nation Address yesterday, opposition parties said Ramaphosa should walk the talk and not protect those implicated in corruption. DA leader Mmusi Maimane said he welcomed Ramaphosa’s commitment to reduce the size of his cabinet which is now saddled with 35 ministries. “It is entirely possible to cut our executive down to 15 ministries, with spending priorities that promote economic growth and job creation. This would save us around R4.7 billion each year.” He also said Ramaphosa should start with axing the compromised ministers. “Show South Africa you are really serious about fighting corruption in your party and fire Bathabile Dlamini, Faith Muthambi, Mosebenzi Zwane, Malusi Gigaba, Des van Rooyen, David Mahlobo, Lynne Brown and Bongani Bongo,” Maimane said. EFF leader Julius Malema said he did not understand why Muthambi remained a minister. “What justification is that? Any normal person in power make Faith Muthambi a minister and leave out a person like Thoko Didiza?” Malema said. He also said Ramaphosa should not waste time in removing his colleagues in the same way he cleaned up Eskom  of corrupt people. “You are continuing to protect your own. Don’t protect those who are implicated in corruption,” Malema said. “All of them who are to frequent the state capture inquiry must be released so that they have time to prepare for state capture inquiry.” The UDM’s Bantu Holomisa said institutionalised corruption has been exacerbated by political heads usurping the powers of accounting officers in all three tiers of the government. “And Mr President, there must be consequences for those who have been found guilty of corruption,” Holomisa said. The DA’s Phumzile van Damme said she was impressed with Ramaphosa’s commitment to not tolerate the plunder of public resources. “It is politicians, not just officials, that should be held accountable when caught stealing and facilitate the stealing people’s money,” Van Damme said. She said Jacob Zuma should be the first to be held accountable. “We would like to see the Ramaphosa presidency walking the talk, by holding Mr Zuma accountable for the millions he wasted in trying to avoid prosecution.” Van Damme added that ANC secretary-general and Premier of the Free State, Ace Magashule, and Zwane should also be in the firing line. “Like ‘honourable’ Mosebenzi Zwane, Ace Magashule must be charged and prosecuted, Top Six or not,” she said. She named Muthambi and Brown, as among those deserving dismissal. “This is a list of a few. The list is endless,” Van Damme said. The DA’s Natasha Mazzone echoed the sentiments of other opposition MPs, saying the Gupta-linked ministers should be “given marching orders and feel the full might of the law thrown at them”. “Let us re-earn the right to be called honourable members.” ANC chief whip Jackson Mthembu said the leadership of Parliament should be one where ethics and integrity were a dominant factor: “It’s through the spirit of ongoing engagement on critical matters that we shall be a nation. “The ANC commits to the people of South Africa that we will isolate and root out corrupt tendencies in the public and private sectors,” Mthembu said. See page 4