Makhura was leading the healing ceremony for families affected by the Life Esidimeni tragedy at Freedom Park in Pretoria. The ceremony was attended by Health Minister Dr Aaron Motsoaledi, as well as Health MEC Dr Gwen Ramokgopa and her Social Development counterpart Nandi Mayathula-Khoza. Makhura said the tragedy could have been prevented and revealed that he would appoint a curator who would look after the interests of family members and survivors of the tragedy. He said the curator would also monitor the implementation of outcomes from the arbitration hearings into the tragedy. “So I want to make sure that in the Gauteng provincial government, especially the health department, we will do everything to implement the outcomes. “But I don’t want this to be done by government officials as we might miss something in the process; a curator will be somebody with integrity and someone with a standing in society,” he said. The children of those who died would benefit from the work of the curator, he said. Makhura also promised to set up a panel to look into the interests of mental health. Thereafter, a pledge committing to standing up against the stigmatisation of mental health and educating the public on mental health and its various forms of discrimination was read. As a gesture of apologising to the families, Makhura, Ramokgopa, Mayathula-Khoza and Life Esidimeni Family Committee member Christine Nxumalo lit candles of hope. They jointly declared the tragedy would never happen again. The officials rang “bells of hope”, again signalling a commitment that such negligence would never happen again. “We are still going to have inquests by a magistrate. People don’t just die and it ends there. We need to know what happened and how did people die,” Motsoaledi told the families. Flora Mashigo, 54, whose elder brother Sodi was among the victims, said: “He was the only brother I had; our family is still struggling. We are not okay, but I guess time heals.” She said the healing sessions were good, but “it doesn’t  mean we will be completely fine now”. Loud sobbing, uncontrollable crying and relief marked the day when officials, religious leaders and bereaved relatives got together for a prayer session. As doves were released, the emotions  proved too much for the bereaved family members, who again sobbed loudly and uncontrollably. They were comforted by the officials and later asked to place white small crosses, which they had been holding, in front of religious leaders for cleansing. The ceremony followed the closure last week of an arbitration hearing into the the deaths of 144 mentally ill patients, who died after the health department moved them from Life Esidimeni to illegal and non-conforming NGOs. All 27 NGOs into which patients were transferred to were operating unlawfully. Health ombudsman Malegapuru Makgoba also found that patients died from hunger and dehydration - violating two important human rights. As the police brass band marched, family members wrote down the names of their loved ones who died. They also wrote messages and put signatures on a banner. To close the ceremony, family members were also cleansed - with water and prayer - and given back their crosses to take home.