JAMES MAHLOKWANE The Department of Water and Sanitation said South Africa recorded slight water level increases in its dams following light rains experienced across the country this week. The department announced that the country recorded a 59.5% to 60% increase, which was better than where the country found itself this time last year when the dams were 57,7% full. The department said the country was in the middle of a rainy season and the latest weekly report indicated that the average dam levels were up from 58,8% to 59,6%. However, the Western Cape was not out of trouble just yet as its average levels kept dropping alarmingly by one percent week-on-week. Recently it dropped from 24,5% to 23,7%. The Theewaterskloof Dam, the main feeder to Cape Town metropolis decreased slightly from 13,1% to 12,1% but this time last year the dam was sitting at 32,1%. Although capetonians were informed they could breathe a sigh of relief as Day Zero was pushed back to June, the delay was accredited to significant water use from residents and the agriculture industry. In Gauteng, the Vaal Dam rose to 81,5% this week courtesy of heavy downpours that fell over large parts of the province last weekend. The Integrated Vaal River System (IVRS) whose 14 dams served Gauteng, Sasol and Eskom increased by 1.2% from 72,8 to 74%. In the same period last year, the system stood at 67,6%. MMC for Utility Services Darryl Moss said the municipality of Tshwane was determined to save water and create water awareness. He said residents needed to be aware that water was a scarce resource and must not be wasted. “Every drop must be used carefully. We have an ongoing water demand management plan. Also water restrictions are still in place. Two major leakages detection and repair projects are about to start. One in Soshanguve and one in Cullinan,” Meanwhile, the South African Weather Services said weather forecast for today (Saturday) was a maximum of 30 degrees, minimum of 17 degrees with rainfall probability of 30%; tomorrow (Sunday) was a maximum of 29 degrees, minimum of 17 degrees with rainfall probability of 60%.