Yesterday Hawks spokesperson Brigadier Hangwani Mulaudzi said South Africa has extradition treaties with India and China. “We are in the process of checking our standing with Dubai,  but what I want to underline is that  all avenues will be looked at to bring them back to answer to their charges,” he said. Mulaudzi added that they would put in an extradition application when the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) tells them to go ahead and make the application. “We will then engage Interpol and bring them back here,” he said. Mulaudzi’s comments came as the family and their allies launched a high court fightback against the NPA’s Asset Forfeiture Unit, opposing the freezing of their multimillion rand assets over corruption allegations. The Interpol General Secretariat said information on fugitives  remains under the ownership of that member country. “With regard to your request in relation to this individual, we would advise you to contact the authorities in the countries where you believe there may be an investigation ongoing,” it said. Last month, the Bloemfontein High Court granted the preservation order to the NPA which saw the seizure of Gupta-linked assets and bank accounts linked to the alleged  illegal siphoning  of around R220 million from the Agriculture Department in 2013 through the Vrede dairy farm project. The farm project was aimed at supporting black emerging farmers but saw it being used by the family to facilitate looting of the provincial government’s coffers.  About R30m of the funds were used to fund the Gupta family’s lavish wedding at Sun City in the North West and at least R10 million was deposited into a personal account. The Hawks are currently on a hunt for the eldest Gupta brother, Ajay, who has been declared a fugitive as he remains on the run from an arrest warrant which has been issued against him over  similar corruption allegations. Yesterday, Atul Gupta and several individuals implicated in the Free State Vrede dairy farm corruption allegations filed papers to the high court, opposing the NPA’s asset 
seizure. In papers filed before the court, Atul, who confirmed he was out of the country, accused NPA financial investigator Nkosiphendule Mradla of misleading the court and failing to provide proof of the money he alleges was paid to him and others who are accused. He said the funds were paid to Estina, the Gupta linked company which was controversially granted a 99-year lease of the farm by the Free State government. “The allegations contained in Mradla’s affidavit pertaining to this alleged payment are not referred to or substantiated in either of the other two affidavits filed in support of the application or any of the annexures thereto. “Most critically, Mradla and the NDPP have not demonstrated in the application for the preservation order that any portion of the amount paid to Estina 
(R220 202 652.00) was transferred into any bank account held by me (or for that matter into the bank accounts of any of the other affected parties other than Estina).  No evidence whatsoever has been put up in relation to this. “I categorically deny any such transfer into any bank account owned or operated by me,” Atul said. NPA spokesperson Luvuyo Mfaku has dismissed Atul’s claims, saying  bank statements of accounts involved were included in their application. Mfaku said many of those implicated in the case have also launched their separate applications to oppose the preservation order, including Nazeem Howa, former CEO of Gupta-owned Oakbay company. “There are notices of intention to oppose from a couple of other people who are affected, about six of them,”Mfaku said. He said the prosecuting authority was already preparing its own papers to oppose the applications. “They are entitled in terms of the Prevention of Organised Crimes Act to bring applications and challenge the preservation order and they have done so, but obviously we are opposing their application. “Our people are going to file in due course. They have been busy working on the papers,”Mfaku said. The matter is set to be heard in the Bloemfontein High Court on Thursday next week. A senior official in the Department of International Relations and Co-operation said the Guptas and Duduzane Zuma were believed to be in Dubai in the United Arab Emirates, which does not have an extradition treaty with South Africa. The government was set to use diplomatic channels to apprehend the Guptas, the official said, adding that they had secured co-operation from India, China and the UAE when the investigation started. “As soon as they are traced they won’t be any problem to bring them here. Even in the absence of an extradition treaty, we can still via bilateral mechanism secure co-operation whenever there is a case that involves somebody who has broken the law in country A and flees to country B,” he said. The official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said they had not sent India a request for arrest of Ajay or any of the brothers because security agencies believe they have fled to the UAE. It is believed that Ajay left India a day after President Jacob Zuma’s resignation. “Our agencies have established where they are. The request (for arrest) would not have not gone to India at the moment. They are not there. They are in UAE. I think in the next 24 to 72 hours there will be developments,” he said.