According to the Health Department, the achievements of Steve Biko in meeting management and service delivery standards was a goal all hospitals had to strive towards. Acting chief executive Dr Mathabo Mathebula said peers and patients also thought Steve Biko deserved the accolades. “The decision by the Office of Health Standards is based on quarterly assessments we carry out among ourselves, which have shown that we provide exactly what patients need,” Mathebula said. But critical was the provision of services to patients, she said. “We have the expertise needed in terms of doctors, because we are a training hospital, producing highly qualified people,” Mathabo told the Pretoria News yesterday. She said patient satisfaction surveys also contributed, and according to those who went to the hospital, the service provided was what they needed. “Hotel services like the building and lifts are not the most important,” she said. “When they come here their main interest is being given quality treatment and they get that.” Steve Biko beat Charlotte Maxeke Johannesburg Academic Hospital, Dr George Mukhari and Chris Hani Baragwanath to the top spot. The assessments of hospitals and clinics, the department said, examined performance and management, patient rights, patient safety, clinical governance and care, clinical support services, public health, leadership and corporate governance. They also looked at operational management and facilities and infrastructure. The expectation was for the promotion of good quality health services and healthcare standards, according to the National Core Standards, which were established in 2011 to set a benchmark for quality of care. They were also put in place to provide a framework for the national accreditation of health establishments. The hospital has, over the past few years, been rocked by reports of a lack of quality service rendered, with the most recent being the non-functionality of lifts. Patients and visitors spoke about their frustrations when trying to move between departments and floors, some saying they were forced to go back home without having achieved what they had gone there for. But that was not a major issue, said Mathebula. “Patients are satisfied with the actual care they get.” She said they were given 90% for patient satisfaction surveys. “An assessment by our own staff and patients indicated that we were on the right track. “Patients are satisfied the questions they answered were prescribed provincially and they said they were highly satisfied.” The quarterly self-assessments, done between hospitals, were also an indication of the hospital’s ability to provide critical services. “We do self-assessment among ourselves and our peers to constantly check if this is something we do continuously.” Mathebula said the most critical areas were the function ones, for which last year Steve Biko scored 100%. The hospital, a tertiary institution attached to the University of Pretoria, had the right equipment and tools. These, she said, were at the heart of the assessment. “When those who have to come here observe people working well with each other, they notice where we might lack anything, they see our patient engagement and the satisfaction therefrom.” She said issues like the lifts were no impediment. “We are a high-rise building, but our advantage is we also have multiple entrances, and where there is need to use vehicles to get people to the floors and departments, we get them there. So the hospitality issues, while important, are not the main focus of people coming here.” In 2016, Steve Biko was also the top central hospital in the province.