Masondo told the Pretoria News that some dishonest social media users were spreading misinformation that three suspects were later caught, shot and killed by the police. He warned that some people were misleading the public by posting photographs on social media. “Concerned citizens who sought justice need not be entertained by such reports, but work with the police to help catch the culprits.” Masondo was speaking on the incident which happened last week in which nine men armed with rifles shot directly at a G4 Security vehicle, forcing it to stop on the N4 between  Ga-Rankuwa and the R80. The suspects then overwhelmed three security officers out of the vehicle before using explosives to destroy the truck. Masondo said the security officers were not harmed in the process and the private companies involved in the cash-in-transit (heist) were responsible for the provision of counselling for their staff. An undisclosed amount of money was taken from the vehicle, and the police were determined to continue investigations until the suspects were arrested. “The information being spread is misleading considering that the suspects are still on the run; the police did not shoot and kill any people in relation to the heist. “We need the public to help us catch the culprits by calling our offices to provide information and tips,” Masondo said. While the police may not speak on ongoing investigations, it is believed one of their leads was that the suspects were spotted fleeing in two Audi A4 vehicles - one blue and the other silver grey. Cash-in-transit heists remain one of the criminal activities targeted by Minister of Police Fikile Mbalula and other rapid armed response authorities. The suspects are often heavily armed men who travel in hijacked vehicles which they later dump. Heists and cargo hijacks have worried thousands of South Africans in the past couple of years and even affected the continent’s biggest airport, Oliver Tambo International Airport. Masondo said members of the public who were keen to assist the police in their manhunt for the suspects were encouraged to provide information to 0860 10111 or their nearest police station.