Zuma, addressing the nation on live television last night, said he would step down with immediate effect, even though he disagreed with the decision taken by the new ANC leadership, headed by Ramaphosa. “No life should be lost in my name and also the ANC should never be divided in my name. I have therefore come to the decision to resign as president of the Republic with immediate effect. Even though I disagree with the decision of the leadership of my organisation, I have always been a disciplined member of the ANC.” With these words, Zuma resigned as president of South Africa, despite having earlier in the day persisted with his defiant stand. In his last moments in office, Zuma remained unrepentant, maintaining that he disagreed with the ANC decision to recall him. Zuma effectively accused the ANC of violating his rights by recalling him without telling him what he had done wrong. “I don’t fear exiting political office. However, I have only asked my party to articulate my transgressions and the reason for its immediate instruction that I vacate office,” he said. He said his disagreement was aimed at protecting the rule of law and his rights. An emotional Zuma said his decision to resign was due to his discipline as a member of the ANC, even though he disagreed with the decision. “As I leave, I will continue to serve the people of South Africa as the ANC, the organisation I’ve served all of my life,” he said. ANC deputy general secretary Jessie Duarte said that as the party, they wanted to save Zuma from the embarrassment of a motion of no confidence. Duarte said they would respond to Zuma on his question regarding his recall. “While we accept the resignation of President Zuma, we reiterate that our decision to impose a recall was taken only after exhaustive discussions on the impact such a recall would have on the country, the ANC and the functioning of government,” Duarte said. Zuma quit on the eve of a scheduled debate on the ninth no confidence motion brought against him by the opposition. Yesterday afternoon, the ANC had resolved to vote in favour of the motion after giving him 48 hours to resign on Monday evening. He did so less than an hour before the deadline lapsed. Earlier in the day, ANC treasurer-general Paul Mashatile flew to address the ANC MPs after the governing party resolved to recall Zuma in the early hours of Tuesday. Mashatile said he briefed the caucus on the decision to recall Zuma and push ahead with a motion of no confidence. “We have asked the chief whip to proceed with the motion of no confidence (today),” he had said. A meeting of chief whips' forum had agreed that the motion be debated and voted for today. Ramaphosa is expected to be elected in a sitting tomorrow and then deliver the State of the Nation (Sona) in the evening. The debate on the Sona will take place on Monday, followed by the president’s reply on Tuesday. The tabling of the Budget is expected to go ahead as planned on Wednesday. However National Assembly Speaker Baleka Mbete had said the motion of no confidence in Zuma would be debated this afternoon - if Zuma still refused to step down by last midnight. In an interview with the SABC yesterday, a defiant Zuma stated publicly that he disagreed with the decision of the ANC to recall him, and warned that it would plunge the country into a “crisis”. DA leader Mmusi Maimane welcomed “Zuma’s overdue resignation”. “We rejoice with all South Africans today as the long, painful decade of Zuma’s presidency finally comes to an end,” he said. “Jacob Zuma did untold harm to our country. More people are unemployed than ever before, and more people live in poverty than when he came into office. On his watch, corruption has been allowed to flourish to the point of nearly destroying our country and completely capturing the state and the prosecution system. That will forever be his shameful legacy.” Maimane pointed out that even in his resignation speech, Zuma refused to take any responsibility for his actions, and the harm he caused the country. “Such shameless disdain requires a level of pathology that reveals Zuma’s true nature. “He must now face the 783 criminal charges still awaiting him before the courts. There can be no amnesty or immunity for Zuma.” Maimane said after getting rid of Zuma, the ANC must show serious intent to rid itself of other corrupt individuals. “We need total change to enforce 15-year minimum sentences on anyone found guilty of corruption and the South African Police Service must be professionalised so that they can become the trusted custodians of our safety.” He added the country looked to Ramaphosa to save it from a man that he and the ANC protected and supported. “We must never allow this to happen again,” Maimane stated. The Save South Africa campaign said it was joining the people of South Africa as a whole to celebrate the demise of Zuma. “We are absolutely delighted to see the back of the worst president this country has ever seen. We look forward to seeing him again in court, and soon, to face justice for his multitude of crimes against the people of South Africa,” it said. “Zuma’s resignation brings to an end the most calamitous era in our post-apartheid history, and will be celebrated by anyone who values our constitution, our flag and our sovereignty. All these together with the values of our young democracy were compromised by Zuma and his crony compradors.” See Pages 4, 10 and 11