The situation remained unchanged following Wednesday’s protest, during which bus commuters clashed with taxi drivers. An office belonging to a local taxi association was torched after taxi drivers barricaded the R101 route to Pretoria with burning tyres. Drivers protested against the implementation of the arrangement between the City and taxi associations, which effectively barred them from transporting commuters to the CBD. MMC for roads and transport Sheila Senkubuge said taxi operators were compensated for the Rainbow Junction in Wonderboom to CBD route. She said R300 000 was paid for each of the 375 minibus taxis. Yesterday, taxi drivers vowed not to return to work until the City had waived their arrangement by allowing them into the CBD. The plan was entered into by the City and the three taxi associations operating in Hammanskraal, Stinkwater, Eersterust and Ga-Mokone, in terms of which taxi associations were to be compensated for the 10km they would forfeit by ending their rides at Wonderboom. In an about-turn, drivers complained that the implementation of the arrangement had resulted in their earnings being slashed. They claimed some drivers who used to take home R1000 a week were now making a measly R150. According to them, the losses were due to the restrictions in operating on the inner-city roads, which meant they didn’t make enough money. The drivers’ representatives met Senkubuge on Wednesday in an effort to persuade the City to annul the arrangement. Senkubuge accused the taxi organisations of  negotiating in bad faith, especially following the City’s marathon consultations with concerned commuters and taxi organisations. “After the City negotiated in good faith yesterday (Wednesday) it appears that there are no taxis to transport commuters into town this morning which is a further demonstration that these rogue taxi organisations, influenced by political elements, have no interest in providing services to the people of Tshwane,” she said. Senkubuge added that parties raised concerns about issues such as inefficiencies surrounding the current bus service contract with North West Star. They also requested the extension of the A Re Yeng bus rapid transit system to Hammanskraal. Senkubuge said others raised challenges regarding the arrangement between the City and taxi organisations along the Hammans-
kraal Rainbow Junction and Tshwane CBD route. Some asked for a passenger railway service between the CBD and Hammanskraal, she said. “Following robust engagements that lasted all day, the parties agreed to allow the leadership of Tshwane time to look into the issues raised,” she said. Senkubuge apologised for the inconvenience caused by the disruptions to public transport. “As a result of this, and taking into consideration the safety of commuters and A Re Yeng staff, the City will only be operating a partial service in the inner city,” she said.