The 15-year-old Grade 10 pupil was selected to represent South Africa after presenting her project at the Eskom Expo for Young Scientists last October. The Taiwan International Science Fair is an annual event in which pupils from over 23 countries and territories participate in a competitive fair and a cultural tour of Taipei. “My research project investigated the type and colour of fabric offering the best protection from ultraviolet radiation to prevent skin cancer,” Nadasen said. She said the idea for her project was sparked by concern at the amount of time she spent outdoors, exposed to harmful sun rays that contribute to skin cancer. “I wanted to investigate a topic that would raise awareness of the dangers of ultra-violent radiation. I also wanted to provide a possible solution of using fabric to guard against the harmful ultra-violent rays. “In countries like South Africa, where many people spend a lot of time outdoors, there is a need to take precautions to prevent skin cancer,” she said. She was “in disbelief” the first time she heard that she was one of the two pupils selected to represent South Africa. She said representing South African was a dream come true. Her research investigated eight types of fabric (cotton, linen, nylon, polyester, silk, Spandex, rayon and wool) and six colours (blue, red, green, yellow, black and white) that offered the best and least protection against ultra-violent radiation. “To increase the validity of my experiment, I also tested the amount of light and heat passing through each type and colour of fabric to ascertain the reflectiveness, absorption and transmission properties of the material,” she said. “My research revealed that the thicker the fibres of a fabric, the more protection it would offer against ultra-violent radiation. The results revealed that wool offered the best protection while Nylon offered the least protection.” She said her testing concluded that the presence of increased amounts of darker pigments in a fabric could offer better protection against radiation compared to decreased amounts of pigments in lighter colours. Black offered the best protection against radiation while the colour white offered the least. “I did not win a medal, but I came home a winner nonetheless, and my participation at the fair was a life changing experience," she said.