But in November his life changed when he became “collateral damage” as vigilantes attacked foreigners in the area. A few months later, Sibusiso is still suffering the after-effects of a petrol bomb, flung by angry community members in one of the attacks in the township, west of Pretoria. His aunt, Ivy Sebasa, visited the Pretoria News to express her sadness about what happened to her nephew. She had just come out of the Pretoria Magistrate’s Court where the perpetrators were scheduled to appear for the attack. They did not appear and she later learnt that they had been released. Sibusiso was injured while watching as community members went on the rampage, apparently in a bid to get rid of Pakistani shop owners. According to Sebasa, a few individuals, who are known to her, had warned foreign shop owners to get out of the area as disgruntled residents were coming to burn down their shops. She said the shop, located inside the property where the boy’s family lived, had been closed when the attack took place. The boy and others were outside the entrance trying to see what the commotion was about. Next thing she knew, a petrol bomb hit the shop. Sibusiso was hit and injured. “It was painful to watch him screaming in pain. “We ran (to his aid) and doused him with water”. But it was too late, Sebasa said. Sibusiso sustained severe burns to his back, thighs and private parts. What followed was a trip to the emergency room, where he underwent an operation, but Sebasa said, the boy was “not the same”. “He is in pain and can no longer compete in class and sport.” What makes it worse, Sebasa said, is that nobody has yet been held responsible. “They go on with their lives like nothing happened,” she said of the perpetrators, claiming the family was in the dark about repercussions against those behind the boy’s injury. “The prosecutor we did manage to speak to just told us to come back on February 26. “It’s painful to see the people who did this to him walking about without a care in the world while we have to force him to go to school even though he is in pain. “He misses school every Wednesday to have his dressings changed, but no one cares.” DA spokesperson for community safety in the Gauteng legislature, Kate Lorimer, described vigilante attacks in the province as shocking. The DA claimed there were more than 300 cases of vigilante killings across Gauteng which remained unsolved. Last year, six people were arrested after violence targeted at foreigners flared up in Pretoria West. Lorimer said it was clear that law and order had been replaced by the deadly trend of individuals taking the law into their own hands. “It is evident that there is a lack of willpower to seek justice for those who have succumbed to the fate meted out to them by vigilantes.” Lorimer said communities in Tshwane had reached breaking point as those alleged to have committed crimes were not brought to court. Among the reasons cited by Lorimer were that the police were “overburdened”. In a written response the Pretoria News received, the key areas where such vigilante attacks occurred were Atteridgeville, Mamelodi East, Rietgat, Temba and Olievenhoutbosch. Many claims of vigilante attacks remain under investigation, with very few arrests having been made. Lorimer said the ruling party in the Tshwane council was committed to an overhaul of the SAPS to ensure that specialised and skilled units were introduced to “enable effective policing and implement efficient crime combating strategies”. Brigadier Mathapelo Peters, the SAPS provincial spokesperson, said in general the police were concerned about vigilantism and appealed to the public to refrain from taking the law into their own hands. Peters said the challenge in identifying or apprehending suspects was that people often defended the perpetrators, rather than come forward with information against them. The Pretoria News had not received a response to questions about progress in the Sibusiso investigation by the time of going to press.