It could be an old pair of shoes, textbooks, blankets, food or any small item, which will also go to help scores of Tuks students from disadvantaged 
backgrounds. Titled Back2School, the campaign at the shopping centre is hosted in partnership with Tuks FM. Huge boxes have been placed at the mall in which shoppers and visitors to the centre can place their donations. Menlyn Park general manager Olive Ndebele said it was through a discussion with the institution last year that the idea for the campaign was formed. It will run until Sunday. On their first day of the drive yesterday, Tuks FM hosted an outside broadcast at the mall, a way to get more shoppers to play a part. Scores of shoppers stopped to enquire about what was happening, and some ended up donating items. In addition to the drive, Menlyn Park will donate R30 000 worth of products. Ndebele said: “What we’ve done is we’ve partnered with the radio station as one of our strategies is to work with community media. In our discussion with the university, it emerged that a lot of students aren't financially able to support themselves. They may manage to pay their fees, but can't afford accommodation, food, stationery and toiletries. “The SRC supports approximately 10 000 students a year, so we decided to come on board. We thought we can get our customers to assist by donating items.” She said many people assumed that university students didn't have major financial difficulties, when in fact the opposite was the case. “When people think 'Back to School', they generally think of primary school shoes but nobody considers university students. We all make the assumption that once a student gets to university, they either have a mom, a dad or a bursary supporting them financially throughout the year,” she said. “We looked at how we can help to support education within our catchment area and show that we do care. We do support education and it is important to our young people to have that opportunity to go through their tertiary education without having to struggle.” In interviews with Radio Tuks, UP alumni revealed the struggles they went through during their academic years. One said: “There was a time where I had to to find a job so that I could afford to buy textbooks, to have money to travel from and to school and just to get basic things that were very easy for other students to have. “My favourite time at varsity would be during protest actions for free education because they raised awareness of the different struggles that various students faced."