Rapula Moatshe Leader of the #ZumaMustGo" protest Hangwi Lazarus Maumela has claimed that most supporters of a call to shut down Pretoria didn't pitch up at Burgers Park in Pretoria due to intimidation by a group of 30 people. Maumela said the group was allegedly seen inside a truck full of firearms near Burgers Park on Monday morning. Protesters at the much-anticipated march were expected to gather at Burgers Park at 8am, but they had not shown up at 11am. They were expected to march from Burgers Park to the Union Buildings in a bid to put pressure on President Jacob Zuma to step down. Maumela told journalists that organisers of the march have since sent out a word to those who wanted to take part in a "national shutdown" to keep a low profile because of the alleged intimidation incident. "There are people who came in a truck. And I am told it was not just a truck but with a kombi. And these people have firearms and it was a high number of people. And that had threatened a lot of people. We have said to people that let us stay away from the venue a little bit," he said. Maumela said some would-be marchers were waiting at the three different garages, where they took off their ANC T-shirts so that they can't be victimised". To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  He said he would report the incident to a nearby police station. The planned march was announced on Sunday at a media briefing in Pretoria by organisers, who claimed to be ANC members. But the SACP and the ANC in Gauteng had since distanced themselves from them, labelling them "irresponsible". Maumela said: "People like Hope Papo, secretary of the (Gauteng) ANC is so irresponsible...And he can not come and say we are irrresponsible. Irresponsible of what? I have been saying that we have engaged even the SACP. We have told them that this is our plan and this is what we want to do. Even the SACP has been calling for Zuma to go. You have heard comrade Blade Nzimande saying comrade Zuma must go. So what is it then now that when we say Zuma must go we are told we are irresponsible. When you say that we are irresponsible you are saying that the everybody who have asked for comrade Zuma to go are irresponsible. Therefore you are insulting our voters." Police had also spoken up against the march, saying it was illegal because its organisers had not applied for it. Maumela said: "We are calling on law-enforcement to stop intimidating members of the public by lying. There is no illegal activity that is happening here. We are the citizens of this country who abide by the law. Those generals called for the meeting and they even told us that they were number of people who had done applications and they considered our application. We know that comrade Zuma likes to use the law enforcement to defend his battles. So we are saying that those who use law enforcement to defend their battle, they must come clean. We are continuing with our struggle.We have made a call to say that our comrades must come. We have hired special security to come here. We will fight this battle until Zuma is out." He also expresseed a vote of no confidence in the members of the ANC national executive committee, who were expected to meet on Monday to apparently decide on Zuma's fate as the state president. "Those (are ministers) who want to protect their own selfish interests. You know them. You have been exposing these ministers who have been travelling to Dubai. We know that they will not come out and support the decision that is not right hence we are calling for President Jacob Zuma to go. If you are fed-up with something you let it go or you deal with it. So do you have to wait until the situation is worse? We don't want to be like Zimbabwe," Maumela said.