Justice Mogoeng was delivering an impassioned rationale as to why members of the national executive should take an such an oath. In a packed room at Tuynhuys, where the swearing-in ceremony was taking place, Justice Mogoeng said he would be failing in his duty, “given our history”, if he did not underscore the significance of an oath of office. “We’re not here for a photo shoot, we’re not here for a photo 
opportunity. “We can’t travel all this long just to come gather and undertake an insignificant task. "Everybody who is going to be called upon to take an oath or an affirmation is required to do so as allegiance to the Republic and obedience to the constitution. So if you like, you came to enter into a formal contract with the people of South Africa,” said Justice Mogoeng. That ruling found that former president Jacob Zuma had failed to “uphold, defend and respect” the constitution when it ruled that the public protector’s recommendations for remedial actions over Nkandla was binding. Addressing the new members of  President Cyril Ramaphosa’s executive, Justice Mogoeng said: “We cannot ritualistically gather here and read out this thing as if it is inconsequential. It exists because there is a good reason for its existence” He said the assumption was only that people who have a measure of credibility and integrity, “and some character to write home about are going to be presented here to the nation as those who are going to serve them, as dictated by the 
constitution”. Justice Mogoeng said the new cabinet appointees had to become servants of the people of South Africa. At exactly 5.39pm, Justice Mogoeng said: “You cannot read out this oath as if it's inconsequential. This oath of affirmation is going to judge you. “It would not have found its way into our most important document, the constitution. So may we all be warned “I didn’t have to be here in person, and could have assigned these powers to a High Court judge. But I wanted to be there. May it (the oath) judge us brutally, anyone one of us who are here for a show.” Justice Mogoeng then proceeded to swear in David Mabuza as Ramaphosa’s Number 2, as well as nine new ministers and five deputy ministers. And at 5.42pm, Mabuza took the oath: “I, David Dabede Mabuza, swear that I will be faithful to the republic of South Africa, and will obey, uphold and maintain the constitution, and all other law of the Republic, and solemnly and sincerely promise that I will promote all that will advance the Republic, and oppose all that may harm it.” His words were warmly received by Ramaphosa, who stood up and said: “I want to thank you all for saying what you said. It has great meaning, and will go into the annals of history and democracy” The president then thanked the ministers and deputy ministers, who he appointed when he announced his first cabinet on Monday night. Earlier, the Mpumalanga provincial government had announced the appointment of Co-operative Governance and Traditional Affairs MEC Refilwe Mtsweni as acting 
premier. Mtsweni will be acting premier in the province until next year’s general elections. Yesterday, the provincial legislature held a swearing-in ceremony for her in Mbombela, signalling the end of Mabuza’s official hold as premier in the provincial government since 2009. On Monday, Mabuza - also ANC deputy president - delivered his last State of the Province Address after nine years as premier. Spokesman in the Office of the Premier Zibonele Mccwango said Mabuza had appointed Mtsweni to finish his term as head of the provincial government. “The premier appointed her to act on his behalf for the remainder of his term here in the province. He appointed her before he went to be sworn in in Parliament and take an oath as the deputy president of the country,” Mncwango said. Dubbed as a strongman who ruled Mpumalanga with an iron fist, Mabuza has been the ANC’s chairman since 2008. His official departure as a premier to the deputy leadership of government is set to intensify the battle to replace him as the ruling party’s provincial chairman. The ANC in the province is set to hold its provincial general council in early April where the post will be filled.