Briefing the media on the drought, Van Rooyen said Cogta has already made presentations to the National Treasury in light of the Budget estimates for the financial year starting in April. The allocation for the provincial disaster grant is expected to shrink from R213.4 million to R130m in the next financial year while the municipal disaster grant will increase from R300.6m to R370m. “We hope that when the minister delivers his Budget speech he might give an indication to make a provision for some of the challenges. The figures are not sufficient to deal with the magnitude of the problem we currently encounter,” he said. He made the comments when briefing the media on the drought situation that is ravaging the three Cape provinces and other parts of the country. Van Rooyen said the drought situation was taking place at a time the country’s finances were constrained, the economic outlook was not favourable for growth and revenue adversely affected. “We will require more resources under these unfortunate financial conditions. We will have to do more with less to address this particular problem,” he said. “We will have to do the balancing act in distribution of resources,” the minister added. Earlier Van Rooyen told the media South Africa remained in the grip of a drought and a national disaster would be declared. “Currently, efforts are under way to classify the drought as a national disaster. This process will be finished on or before February 14,” he said. “This will legally assign the responsibility to the national executive to co-ordinate the disaster while a declaration is being considered to be finalised within a period of a month,” Van Rooyen said. It is envisaged that the declaration would empower the minister to issue regulations on bylaws, guide procurement and deal with challenges in supply chain management. The Western Cape experienced challenges in spending R74.8m allocated for drought relief last August owing to strict procurement regulations. “It is clear that we have to look into regulations going forward. Of course, giving directions on how thing be expedited from the National Disaster Management Centre.” Water and Sanitation Minister Nomvula Mokonyane said there had to be reprioritisation of funds, current allocations to get utilised and demonstration of a need for additional resources. Mokonyane said Day Zero - coined by the DA in the Western Cape - wasn't something wanted in the country. “It is something that we think can be avoided,” she said before urging citizens to change their behaviour on water use. Both Van Rooyen and Mokonyane also spoke of the need for a single message to be communicated  on the drought. Mokonyane said her recent meeting with Western Cape Premier Helen Zille agreed on many voices but one message. “Let’s take our political leaders out of the space. It is unlawful,” Mokonyane said.