Pretoria - Druglords and peddlers in the Tshwane metro were feeling the heat, mayor Solly Msimanga told the National Press Club on Wednesday night. In addition, Msimanga said the City was planning to organise regional drug action committees, starting in Soshanguve this month, as part of its ongoing war against substance abuse. He was the host and keynote speaker at the National Press Club’s first members networking forum of the year. He used the occasion to talk about about the City’s campaign against drug abuse. The event will be followed by a media tour of some of the drug hot spots in the city. Msimanga, accompanied by health MMC, Sakkie du Plooy, said the City was going all out to intensify the war on drug abuse. “And I’m happy to say that across the City drug lords and peddlers are now feeling the heat,” he said. Msimanga said the City would also establish a local drug action committee before the end of April in line with the National Drug Master Plan. “While employment is extremely important in the rehabilitation process of substances users, the City is embarking on a research project in co-operation with StepUp to involve 10 selected rehabilitating drug users with Expanded Public Works Programme (EPWP) jobs. “Should the research provide positive results, we will make use of the EPWP to assist more rehabilitating substance users with employment,” Msimanga said. He reiterated the commitment by the DA-led administration to fight the drug and substance abuse problem. “We will continue to fight the drug problem while creating opportunities for employment and productivity across the City, so that those wishing to break the chains of addiction may too live a better life - and not be condemned to a life of poverty or death,” Msimanga said. He used the opportunity to take stock of the City’s achievements in its fight against drug abuse. He said the City had established the Tshwane Metro Police Department (TMPD) Anti-Drug Unit with the sole purpose of fighting and eliminating drug abuse in communities. “Members of the unit were given additional training and equipment to take this battle to the next level.” Msimanga told the audience that one of the priority areas of the metro police's social crime prevention initiatives was to bring about drug awareness campaigns in schools and institutions within the City. “During the past year, we have had to face the fact that the treatment results of most rehab centres in the City and Gauteng are insufficient and have a rehabilitation rate of lower than 10%. This means that 90% of addicts relapse soon after they have left the 21-day rehabilitation programmes offered by such centres - at a considerable cost. “The City’s health department is funding the department of home medicine at the University of Pretoria, which developed the evidence-based community-oriented substance use programme,” he said. At least 2 364 people were enrolled in the programme and more than 1 200 follow-up visits conducted for intensive interventions, he said. He estimated that they had reached more than 40 000 people through outreach and education. He said the City operated seven community-oriented substance programme sites in Mamelodi, Soshanguve, Hatfield, Daspoort, Atteridgeville, Eesterust and Sunnyside. “A new site will be opened shortly in Olievenhoutbosch and preparations are being made for a site at the Mabopane station, near the notorious drug den known as 'Nkandla',” he said. According to the mayor, the City had partnered with the private sector to establish a drop-in centre in Brown Street to provide health, psychological, social and services linked to the programme, to substance abusers. “Brown Street is commonly known for being a home to drug users, predominantly unemployed, homeless young males. "It is an area of concern which our administration continues to monitor,” said Msimanga. He told the press club about the City’s 24-hour call centre, called Hope Line, which took calls and referred callers for assistance. “Callers in need of support are also contacted and served by social workers who follow up on calls and ensure that the needs of callers are properly dealt with,” he said. Msimanga said the Hope Line would in future have a toll-free line, but could be reached on 012 358 5001, for now. “We are deeply concerned about the scourge of drugs on our communities, leaving people unproductive, pushing them further into poverty, or driving them deeper into drug-related crime and other illicit activities. When we took office we did so knowing that the City needed a comprehensive focus on and response to the drug problem,” he said. Du Plooy, meanwhile, said Msimanga was on duty 24 hours a day serving the people. “Drug and substance abuse, which we are really battling with, is a subject close to his heart and he will do anything to rid the city of the problem,” he added. Pretoria News