Today all eyes will be on Ramaphosa - who was sworn-in late yesterday after his election in the National Assembly - when he delivers his maiden State of the Nation address (Sona) at 7pm. Ramaphosa was elected the fifth democratic President of South Africa just hours after the dramatic resignation of former president Jacob Zuma. ANC insiders said the new president was expected to appoint a new cabinet soon, with speculation rife he would get rid of the ministers and deputy ministers implicated in state capture allegations. Some of the ministers linked to the Guptas looked despondent after Ramaphosa was elected in Parliament yesterday. Ramaphosa has not indicated when he will announce his new cabinet, but it is expected he will do so before the end of the weekend in time for the Budget speech on Wednesday. ANC leaders would also not be drawn on the date the new cabinet will be announced. But in a list that was circulating on social media, with official Parliamentary letterheads, it appears Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba was likely to be fired and a new minister was set to deliver the Budget on Wednesday. It was speculated former finance Minister Pravin Gordhan would return to the National Treasury. Mineral Resources Minister Mosebenzi Zwane and Social Development Minister Bathabile Dlamini have been earmarked for axing in the cabinet reshuffle. The list showed former ANC treasurer Zweli Mkhize, former ANC spokesperson Zizi Kodwa, Ronald Lamola, Senzo Mchunu, David Masondo and Cosatu’s second vice-president Zingiswa Losi could be sworn-in as ANC MPs. Earlier, Mkhize attended the ANC caucus meeting in Parliament. ANC chief whip Jackson Mthembu said Mkhize was a member of the national executive committee and was allowed to attend any ANC meeting including its caucus in Parliament. “We are happy to have a senior leader of the ANC, who is not a member of caucus, here. It’s the chief whip who knows which vacancies (are available),” said Mthembu, when asked if Mkhize would be appointed an MP. ANC national executive committee member Lindiwe Sisulu has been tipped as favourite to be appointed by Ramaphosa as his successor in the deputy presidency of the country. IFP chief whip Narend Singh told Ramaphosa after his election to get rid of ministers mired in graft. “You will get rid of the scourge of corruption. You will remove from your cabinet all those individuals allegedly involved in state capture and incompetent ministers,” said Singh. Ramaphosa promised to work in the interests of South Africa in cleaning up SOEs and cracking down on state capture. “The issues you have raised, issues of corruption, SOEs and state capture are issues on our radar screen. We will address them tomorrow (in the Sona) and the steps we are taking,” he said. He said he agreed with opposition parties on choosing a good executive team. “Reverend (Kenneth) Meshoe, we will pay heed to the advice you are giving that we should choose a great team. All of us should lead our people with great courage. I will try to work very hard and not disappoint the people of South Africa,” said Ramaphosa. Cosatu said Ramaphosa had to cut the country’s bloated cabinet by half. The federation expected detailed time-frames and targets on a jobs plan in the Sona, including the long-promised presidential jobs summit being deliberated on in Parliament, to come into law by May Day. ”Ramaphosa needs to be engaging but decisive, not handle crooks with kid gloves as there was no time for laziness when addressing the jobs bloodbath and unemployment,” the federation said in a statement. The country’s biggest federation is also demanding a clear commitment to end looting and state capture and for National Director of Public Prosecutions Shaun Abrahams to be axed. The SACP has called on Ramaphosa to focus on reduction of inequalities by rooting out patronage networks within the state. “These measures will require dismantling the parasitic networks surrounding our state and decisively bringing an end to corporate capture of the state and all other forms of corruption and wrongdoing,” the party said. Mandla Nkomfe, the convener of Future SA, a non-partisan coalition of civil society organisations, demanded that the commission of inquiry into state capture be provided with necessary resources to complete its work on time. Future SA also wants the inquiries into state capture at state-owned companies to continue and act urgently to fix Prasa. See Page 4,14,15