The private hospital group said the false job adverts include posts for emergency care technicians, nurses, security, porters and other administration opportunities. Intriguing, Mediclinic said, was how they lured people into paying for the jobs as part of the application.Potential job seekers have to pay money through channels of money market counters to cellphone 
numbers. “The modus operandi of such scams often includes the solicitation of money through informal channels such as money market counters to cellphone numbers as part of the application or training process.” Mediclinic said it was standard practice for it not to ask for payment for job applications, and that people should rather check its website for posts. “It is important to note that Mediclinic would never require a job applicant to make a payment as part of the application process. “We distance ourselves from these scams and request individuals interested in seeking employment within Mediclinic to visit www.mediclinic.co.za for all valid employment opportunities,” 
Mediclinic said yesterday. Provincial police spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Lungelo Dlamini said job scams had been in existence for a long time. With the advent of the era of social media, people needed to be aware that there was no such thing as a job application that required money for it to be processed. It was dangerous to follow such applications online without knowing the motive and people behind the dodgy posts, he said. “We often handle such cases because they are fraud, but we only open cases once they have been reported. “Before dealing with job applications people must undergo proper research, to check if the company is legit and properly registered. “ And they must be careful not to find themselves in a situation where they pay money to get a job - that is fraud. A legit company will let people go to a selection process and not let people pay money,” Dlamini said. He encouraged people not to fall for these kind of scams. Mediclinic said people had to be wary  of  job scams that requested upfront payment or banking details as part of applications. “Usually they lack interviews as part of the application process. Legitimate sounding names are used that resemble the company name (eg Medi-clinic).And they use several company logos on official looking letterheads.”