The gallery presented Usha Seejarim’s work. She won the Fair’s Tomorrows/Today Prize - a curated section of solo presentations by artists. The section showcased contemporary African art, which for the first time this year opened for artists beyond the continent. The conceptual artist and sculptor’s practice is based on her interest in the representation of gender and women, and a fascination with the ordinary through domestic and found objects. Seejarim won a cash prize of R50000 and went on to have one of her pieces bought by the Fondazione Fiera Milano as part of its collection, so it's destined for Italy. She said with 20 years' experience in the industry she felt validated as an artist as winning meant she was on the right track. “It means so much to me," she said. "It shows I’m going down the right path, even after years of work. "My inspiration comes from everyday living, from washing and ironing and chores, but it also comes from thinking beyond what it is that one does every single day.” Seejarim acknowledged that her "uniqueness" won her the prize and said that young upcoming artists had to stop imitating other artists’ work, so they could produce great work. They should offer "innovative and creative art". Seejarim has created exhibitions in institutions, including Wits Art Museum, the Durban Art Gallery and Johannesburg Art Gallery, and produced numerous public art projects throughout South Africa. Fried Contemporary was founded in 2005. The gallery has three exhibition rooms showcasing a curated selection of contemporary art from across South Africa. The gallery has three dedicated rooms that exhibits different artists or group shows every month. The Collector’s Room, which was established in August 2014, presents the work of professional artists to collectors. The gallery also invites young and established curators to put up exhibitions. The annual exhibition was in its sixth year and had over 95 exhibitors, and buyers from around the country interacted emerging artists. 