Nkomo met mayor Solly Msimanga at Tshwane House, where she undertook to set an agenda for her first 100 days in office. She told Msimanga of her resolve to rid the city of criminal activities. “No person should be subjected to a life of unwarranted fear or danger, I commit to work with the entire metro police force and ensure that the rule of law is always upheld,” Nkomo said. Msimanga expressed his confidence in Nkomo, saying she possessed "multi-skills to fight against crime". “I have no doubt that we will begin to see positive change being affected by this new leadership. Nkomo’s qualifications include a national diploma in police administration from Technikon SA. She is also an admitted advocate of the high court,” Msimanga said. He said he had requested Nkomo’s audience to officially meet her and engage her action plan to make Tshwane a safer place for its residents. “The completion of this appointment process is one such indication that strides are being made to further stabilise the City’s leadership so that we may continue to make the progress our people need,” he said. Msimanga thanked Jenny Malan, who served as the acting police chief after the departure of former chief Steven Ngobeni in April last year. “We are grateful and will continue to work with her. Criminals are warned that their criminal activities are now in the spotlight. "This administration, upon assuming office, adopted a zero-tolerance approach to crime and we are very excited to be led by the calibre of officer that is Johanna Nkomo, a career police woman,” Msimanga said. “As per our promise, we will intensify our efforts to stabilise, revitalise and deliver to the people of Tshwane by partnering with local businesses, communities and other stakeholders to enhance the image of this beautiful city and to ensure that we cultivate a safe city of opportunity for all,” he said. In November last year, councillors from all parties approved Nkomo’s appointment after Msimanga announced her as his preferred candidate for the position. Nkomo is a former Sunnyside police station commander and had an illustrious career as an SAPS officer. Her appointment was made despite criticism by the South African Municipal Workers Union (Samwu), which questioned the legality of including a policing and military background among the requisite skills for the post. Both Samwu and the Independent Municipal and Allied Union had disputed the recruitment process as being unfair and illegal.