De Lille is facing a motion of no-confidence by her own party. James Selfe, chairperson of the DA’s federal executive, said charges were laid following affidavits submitted to the party by a Gauteng business person. “We received an affidavit from a business person in Gauteng alleging that the mayor of Cape Town solicited a bribe. When we received this affidavit, we communicated this to the mayor’s lawyers and of course we have an obligation in terms of the  Prevention and Combating of Corrupt Activities’ Act to bring this to the attention of the police,” Selfe said. The charges relate to alleged attempts by De Lille to solicit a R5million bribe from a business person from Vanderbijlpark in 2012. It is alleged that she sought the money in exchange for her support of his business venture to supply fire extinguishers to informal settlements in the City. De Lille denied the allegations and questioned their timing. “I deny and reject the reported allegations with the contempt it deserves. The timing of this latest move raises many questions such as why this man, Anthony Faul, is conveniently coming forward now when the DA is charging me for other matters,” she said. De Lille asked why the man went to the DA first instead of the police and why he had waited five years to open a case against her. “This seems to be the latest of a string of moves to taint my name by clutching at anything and informing the media before allegations are properly tested.” This comes at a time when the City of Cape Town has called for a special council meeting over the motion of no-confidence and removal of executive mayor. The DA caucus decided by a majority of 84 votes to 59 and one spoilt vote that it has lost confidence in the Cape Town mayor. The special council is set to take place on February 15 and will be convened by City of Cape Town speaker, Dirk Smit. Selfe said the ongoing investigation will affect the embattled mayor’s functions. “I have no doubt that as you have seen, the DA itself is charging the mayor of misconduct on a variety of different grounds. These new charges add to those which have already been laid against her by the party. This will of course affect the mayor, but at the moment we only have an allegation,” he said. He further refuted allegations that the DA is planning to replace De Lille with Western Cape DA leader Bonginkosi Madikizela.