The opposition party’s campaign for Zuma’s removal from the Union Buildings and forcing the president to pay for the Nkandla security upgrades had won the organisation favour with voters and entrenched the party. Political analysts said the EFF would survive beyond Zuma’s tenure as head of state given the poverty levels among poor people. Yesterday, EFF leader Julius Malema indicated that the mending of the collapsing public health system and prosecution of Ramaphosa for his role in the Marikana massacre in 2012 would be high on their agenda when Zuma vacates his post. Malema, who was speaking at a press conference at his party’s Braamfontein, Joburg offices, said  his party has declared 2018 as the year of public healthcare during which party members will visit underperforming facilities, encourage workers to expose corruption, nepotism and racism. “This year we take pride in our five years of existence. We take pride in our indisputable unity and stability at all levels. We have given hope to domestic workers, farm workers, security guards, petrol attendances, the landless and the unemployed. We have inspired the continent, giving the strongest indication yet that the alternative socialist vision still exists for a much better world in replacement of the evil system of capitalism,” Malema said. He praised his party’s role in activities such as #FeesMustFall, #StatuesMustFall movements, fighting of insourcing at universities, creation of state-owned banks, land expropriation and a minimum wage. “Having noted this impact we vow to remain faithful to our generational mission of the attainment of economic freedom in our lifetime. We shall remain united in struggles and always close ranks against forces that seek to divide and dissociate us from our mission,” said Malema. Political analyst Dr Mcebisi Ndletyana said the EFF had managed to go beyond the Zuma vendetta. “The EFF was initially a leftist militant party that had a vendetta with Zuma but it has since evolved through its policies and constitutions that speak to the marginalised people. “Things such as opening of clinics 24/7 and land expropriation without compensation are in their manifesto. As long as there are poor living conditions you will have the EFF,” Ndletyana said. Professor Shadrack Gutto also said the EFF was here to stay. “South African issues such as the water crisis and unemployment are bigger than Zuma and they won’t go away when he leaves. The EFF will continue to be relevant as long as those issues still persist,” said Gutto. Analyst Ralph Mathekga said Zuma’s continued efforts to remain in the office has exposed weaknesses within the ANC which present a political opportunity for opposition parties. “Zuma has weakened and divided the ANC. The party has shown that it cannot adapt and change with the times. The party has inherited a problem because of Zuma while the EFF has shown some level of growth and speaks to the man on the streets,” said Mathekga.