The CID is a non-profit organisation funded by the 26 property owners within the area responsible for urban security and safety, cleaning and maintenance and urban management. Chief executive Lucas Luckhoff  said: “I declare war against criminals, and if you are coming to Hatfield to look for trouble, you will find trouble. But I (can) guarantee you, if you need help we will help you.” He said the root cause of crime in Hatfield was poor people with drug-related problems willing to do anything to get their next fix. One of the innovative ways to deal with crime would be through technology, and in particular cellphone application, he said. The service will essentially be a geolocation-enabled emergency notification system which acts as an extension of an alarm system. “When a panic button is triggered, it dispatches the appropriate emergency response to the location of the Hatfield CID subscriber who triggered the button,” said Danie Basson, chief operations officer for security and cleaning. Luckoff said the Hatfield CID’s biggest problem was crimes such as stolen vehicles and theft out of cars. Older model vehicles were bigger targets for potential car thieves, he said. Students from the University of Pretoria suffered the most. The university’s Professor Denver Hendricks said they were a major stakeholder in the area - an anchor, as it were - because of its spatial immobility. Unlike a regular business, it could not simply uproot and move elsewhere. It was also in their interest to contribute to the economic stability and growth of the local economy in order to ensure its own long-term sustainability. Criminals in the area were posing as car guards, and almost always worked in pairs. “One of them will sweet talk you to distract you, while the other will open your vehicle doors slightly so they don’t completely lock when you press your remote,” said Basson said. The devices criminals used to jam signals works on most vehicles, except newer car models. In association with the metro police and the Brooklyn SAPS, a process to “formalise” car guards has started in Burnett Street. “The aim is to have only accredited car guards in our area, individuals who have been vetted by the Brooklyn SAPS and will have the necessary identification and sign-offs to operate in a demarcated area. All car guards in our area will eventually be formalised,” said Luckhoff. Hatfield CID used approximately 55 security officials from G4S Security and JC Security. Between 28 and 33 officials worked during the day, Luckoff said. CCTVs, or “Eyes in the sky”, as he described them, will be installed prominently in the area, adding to the ones already there. He said it was proven that the more CCTV cameras there were, the higher the success rate of criminal convictions. Almost 90% of the cases were successful. An additional 16 cameras will be added. Basson said they had done a lot of research on the feasibility of having their own CCTV camera system. Luckhoff also praised the Tshwane Metro Police Department Bicycle Unit. He said that since its inception last year, it was restoring law and order in the streets. A further asset of this project is that the metro police leadership offered the community a satellite police station in Hatfield to enhance safety. It is a client service centre, with two officers manning it on a 24/7 basis. In addition, they will also get a patrol unit of four officers dedicated to the Hatfield area.