Police have found eight more patients at various non-governmental organisations (NGOs) over the past few days. There were initially 62 untraced patients following their removal from dozens of unlicensed NGOs, which were fingered in a damning report into the deaths of over 140 psychiatric patients. Police spokesperson Colonel Lungelo confirmed that eight more patients had been traced and verified to have come from Life Esidimeni. “Four were found in Orange Farm, two in Kwa-Thema and the other two were taken by their families,” Dlamini said. He said investigations into the whereabouts of the remaining 49 patients were continuing. They were among thousands of patients transferred from Life Esidimeni facilities during the marathon project implemented by former health MEC Qedani Mahlangu in 2016. “I have been informed by the police that they have found eight more former patients from Life Esidimeni who were listed as missing by the Gauteng Health Department,” said DA Gauteng health spokesperson Jack Bloom said. He said four patients were found at the Thuli Home Centre in Orange Farm, while another two were found at San Michele Mental Institution in Kwa-Thema. “One patient was taken to an unknown institution, according to his nephew, and another was moved by her mother who refuses to say where she is, but confirms she is still alive. “The police have now resolved 13 of the 62 missing person cases that I opened with them last month, including one who is deceased for unexplained reasons. "This leaves 49 who still need to be found, 27 of whom do not have ID numbers and seven without full names, so it will be very difficult to trace them.” He said the best way to find the remaining untraced patients would be to publicise their photographs. Last week, Dlamini said police had handed over the dockets of more than 140 patients who died during the marathon project to the National Prosecuting Authority for a decision. Arbitration hearings into the deaths of the patients were concluded recently with Section 27 legal representative advocate Adila Hassim informing retired Deputy Chief Justice Dikgang 
Moseneke that an agreement had been reached with the State and that families would receive R20 000 for funeral costs and R180 000 for emotional shock. On Saturday, Premier David Makhura led a healing ceremony for families affected by the Life Esidimeni tragedy at Freedom Park in Pretoria. The ceremony was attended by Health Minister Dr Aaron Motsoaledi, as well as Health MEC Dr Gwen Ramokgopa and her Social Development counterpart Nandi Mayathula-Khoza. Makhura said the tragedy could have been prevented. He also revealed that he would be appointing a curator who would look after the interests of family members and those who survived the tragedy.