He spent hours every day in the fields of Swaziland. Now, at 47, Vilane says he has a spiritual connection with nature. It is this connection that pushes the adventurer and mountain climber to seek out the highest peaks in the world. Since beginning his climbing career in 1996, Vilane has become one of a handful of climbers in the world to complete the Seven Summits and Two Poles challenge when he trekked to the North and South Poles. He was also the first black man to reach the top of Mount Everest - twice, via different routes. He has also summited Africa’s highest peak, Mount Kilimanjaro, 18 times. The highest peak in Africa has turned into an almost yearly pilgrimage that he makes in July to celebrate Mandela Day and raise funds for girl learners. And now, for his latest adventure, he will attempt to summit Everest for the third time. “I get so much energy when I look at the trees and wildlife and when I walk in the wilderness. I realise there is something enriching; it has become much more spiritual. As a result, I feel attracted to nature and mountains and that’s why I have been climbing for all these years. “When you are in nature, it proves to you that you are nothing. You can think you are a dominant human being but you aren’t. I learnt this while sitting in a storm at the South Pole,” Vilane said. He said the itch to go back to Everest for the third time is about testing his physical limits. In the two months that it will take him to reach the peak, Vilane wants to see how his body will fare on the mountain, 15 years after his last climb. He had planned to return to Everest in 2014 but could not get up the mountain because it was closed to clear an accident. “I am trying to answer the curiosity that has been occupying my mind since I left the mountain. I hope this time the weather will be on my side and I only have to contend with the physical side.” Vilane said being older meant he had more wisdom and patience as a climber. “The older I am, the more experienced I am and more wise on mountains. Now I am more sensible and more cautious. I will be more aware of what my body is telling me. My summit is not about reaching  the mountain; I have been twice. This is my climb. This is where I am throwing my body on the line saying: ‘Can you cope?’ My summit will be as far as my body is comfortable and can take me up. I have the question: ‘How capable am I now at my age, having been there nearly 15 years ago?’ The answer is: ‘You will never have an answer to that unless you put your body into it.’” And so for this trip, Vilane is going back to the first route he used to summit Everest. “I was young and very blasé and focused on the goals. I am hoping that this time when I go back I will be doing it in a much more relaxed manner and savour every moment even before I get to the base camp.” Vilane, for the first time, will lead a team of climbers to the base camp. “People think base camp is doable and I think it is. This is just giving people exposure to things they never thought they would do. And when I leave base camp to continue my summit, I will have a special send-off,” he jokes. Though he has achieved physical feats that most people can only dream of, Vilane believes anyone can do it and it is all about not putting limits on yourself. “I believe that we are all naturally gifted with a physical body that can take anything if we condition it to. I have adopted the attitude that my body knows no limits and therefore I can take my body anywhere.” To prepare for his expeditions,  Vilane not only does it physically by running every day but mentally as well. Though Kilimanjaro is easy, it was one of his worst hiking experiences in 2016 when racing driver Gugu Zulu died during the Trek4Mandela climb.