This was after after it came to light Cathy van Oudtshoorn, 30, wanted to plead “temporary insanity”. She allegedly murdered her husband on the evening of April 11, 2016, in their Brakpan home. Her mother, Johanna (Jorine) van Niekerk, earlier pleaded guilty as an accessory to murder, after she admitted she knew about the murder plans and assisted her daughter in lying to the police afterwards. The mother said after the killing, she and her daughter made statements to the police that someone had broken into their home and killed Van Oudtshoorn. Van Niekerk was sentenced to five years' imprisonment in terms of a section of law where she only had to serve 10 months, before she was freed on correctional supervision (house arrest). The mother said her daughter paid two men R2500 to kill her husband but then decided to kill her husband herself. The mother agreed to take the stand against Van Oudtshoorn. Their trials were separated and the daughter’s case was to be heard yesterday in the Gauteng High Court, Pretoria. Prosecutor David Broughton, however, told Judge Bert Bam that in light of Van Oudtshoorn now wanting to plead temporary insanity, it was best that she be psychologically evaluated and thus go to the mental institution for observation. It also came to light that Van Oudtshoorn is about six months' pregnant with twins. Judge Bam questioned why she only now indicated that she was going to plead temporary insanity. The judge made it clear there was no reason why a pregnant woman could not face trial. Judge Bam further warned her that if she was unnecessarily delaying her trial, he would take the “drastic step”  to revoke her bail. The matter was postponed to July 30, although Van Oudtshoorn was due to deliver her twins around the end of June. Van Niekerk, during her trial, said her daughter fetched her in April 2016, to visit her and her husband. “She told me she wanted to kill the victim.” That fateful day they went to a mall where her daughter spoke to two men. “She asked them to kill the victim for R2500. One said it was too little and he wanted R5000. She then gave them R2500 and said she was going to give them the rest after the killing.” Van Niekerk said her daughter took the men to her house to show them where her husband normally sat in the evenings. “She told me if the two gentlemen were not going to do it (murder) she would do it herself. I told her she must not do it, but rather divorce him.” Van Niekerk said that while she went outside to speak to her husband over the phone, “I heard a loud bang. My daughter then told me she killed the deceased” Van Niekerk said they went to the petrol station to fill up the car. When they got home, her daughter told her to help scatter items from the cupboard on the floor, so it looked like they were robbed while away.