A settlement was reached by the City and a group of businesspeople last month, part of which included that the municipality provide monthly progress reports to the Registrar of the Court and applicants. The reports had to include information on the work that had been done on the sinkhole the previous month. On Friday, the applicants’ lawyer, Jacques Classen, expressed concern regarding the late submission of the report by the City, saying it was at variance with what the court order stated. Classen said he had received the report, but the City had not honoured the deadline for submitting it. He was not in a position to comment on the type of progress already made on site because he had yet to read the report. The applicants, a company called Marndre Beleggings CC and a group of persons affected by the sinkhole, instituted legal action against the City because they were unhappy about the delay to fix the sinkhole on the corner Jean Avenue and Gerhard Street. The deep, wide sinkhole was discovered by contractors doing roadworks in May last year. In terms of the court order, the City had to file a report to the court within 14 days on steps to finalise the repairs, what steps had been taken, the contractor appointed, proof of compliance with municipal finance legislation in the appointment process of the contractor, and steps taken to safeguard the intersection and protect the public. Roads and Transport MMC Sheila Senkubuge was not in a position to comment on the late submission of the report. However, she said the business people had not compelled the City to repair the hole. “Even when they took us to court, the City had already started doing the repair work. “The court judgment wasn’t to make the City fix the sinkhole, it was that we give them a monthly report,” Senkubuge said. The City said it told the court that repairs had started and that the contractor was already on site. Senkubuge said the contractors were working steadily to fix the hole, but it was going to take time before they could complete the work. The City had previously said the court did not order it to repair the sinkhole, nor did it provide a time frame within which to carry out the repairs. The anticipated time for completing the work, barring any outside influence, was six months, the City said. Despite the City’s commitment to fixing the hole, disgruntled business people had already indicated their intention to sue for damages due to the delays caused by the repairs. They said this had negatively affected their businesses. One applicant, Gerry Kanaris, the owner of News Cafe, was forced to close his shop last year after 17 years in business. Some claimed they had lost at least 50% of their revenue. Claasen previously said damages caused by the City’s inaction would probably be in the region of R100million. The city had committed R25m from its operating budget to repair the sinkhole.