The show, which has been going strong for six years, features its biggest line-up to date, with over 10 comedians involved this year. This is the first time it is being presented in Pretoria. Riaad Moosa gives the audience a snapshot of his life, a father of three kids, husband, comedian, actor and with all the current cultural and political issues thrown in. Alan Committie is one of South Africa’s leading award-winning stand-up comic performers.  He has travelled all over the globe sharing his brand of madness. Casper de Vries has been at the forefront of the Afrikaans comedy scene for over 30 years and has a strong following with his witty, razor-sharp humour and hilarious observations on everyday life. Marc Lottering is one of South Africa’s top comedians and has been in the comedy industry for almost 20 years. He is the consummate storyteller and continues to keep audiences in stitches across the country and abroad. Donovan Goliath’s lively manner of storytelling has made him a prolific stand-up act who is set to get the laughs rolling in. Gilli Apter has worked as a comedy writer since 2005 and has entertained audiences around the country with her unique style. Hannes Brummer’s comedic style is highly energetic and physical as he goes on about his Afrikaans heritage, the battle of the sexes and becoming a dad. Jason Goliath is larger than life.  His infectious energy and laugh has made him one of South Africa’s most sought-after comedians. Joey Rasdien is instantly recognisable, his endearing stage person is intellectually absurd, physically hysterical and thought-provoking. Teacher-turned-comedienne Khanyisa Bunu is a fan favourite, having made her mark on TV. Krijay Govender is a South African actress, director and comedienne. Leeanda Reddy is a familiar face on South African stages and screens and has a flair for comedy with her outrageous skits. Melt Sieberhagen has a uniquely South African point of view and an inherent inability to sidestep touchy topics and “holy cows”. He looks at the funny side of living in a dysfunctional society. Shimmy Isaacs looks at her journey as a confused coloured woman who comes into contact with all sorts of cultural dilemmas of her own race and others. Sifiso Nene finds being on stage telling jokes is the only place he feels completely at home. Also, international celebrity beat-boxer Morgan Beatbox makes a guest appearance. The show, presented by Blu Blood in association with Comedy Central Africa, starts at 8pm and is not suitable for children under 16. Tickets are from R150 to R1500 from Computicket.