As you may know, black funerals are the most extravagant events you can think of. I wrote about this last year, so I am not going back to that. But there is a serious family divider; a certified copy of a death certificate. People get so mad at each other because of this important piece of paper that gives them access to money. Families get into unending feuds because of a piece of paper. The most hated person is the one who has it in their hands and decides on who is getting it and who is not. Normally, this would be the matriarch of the family. The fierce aunt or the grandmother who is well clued up on everyone and what they do for a living. I recall a moment in the week where the aunts and uncles were enquiring about who is going to buy what, and who has registered my grandmother for which funeral cover and how much are they contributing towards the funeral expenses. I have realised that it always turns out to be a long consulting process among the family, especially the children and working grandchildren. There is a meeting almost every day until the final hour. Also, it is about flexing financial muscles, those that have disposable cash lead the meetings, this is irrespective of how stupid and irrational they can be. Indeed, money makes the world go around. People, even elders would bow to this individual, and he or she will treat the elders like some naughty kids asking for lollipops. I guess that is a culture we will not break away from any time soon. Here is the most absurd thing; people sign their family members up to get money from their stokvels, official and non-official burial covers for their own gain. How evil have we become that we open policies and register people, all in the name of helping their families when they are no more, but fail to contribute a cent? Have we no conscience? I know that the words; “Leso la gae le a mphedisa” (we live better because he or she is dead) are very popular within the black communities. However, we need to have a conscience when dealing with issues that have to do with the dead. I know we use our own money to pay for those funeral covers and what-not. Do we actually sleep peacefully without weighty days, weeks and months after we move on without contributing a cent? We should have a law against such acts. Everybody should give official consent via an affidavit or a formal letter with a signature, that they agree to be covered for burial by such a person. The last blow for me was in December when my sister and I were helping our paternal family with a burial of someone very close to us. As they heard about our contributions, others kept on saying: “we are certain they are going to get big bucks from funeral policies". "Watch them next week, they will be here asking for the death certificate to go process their claims.” The rumours spread so far that they reached us. It is so heartbreaking to witness our moral decay, as a black community. People don’t think there are people who genuinely do good, with no expectations. The truth is, we were not going to get a cent from anywhere. Quite frankly, doing good is part of our DNA, where help is needed, be it emotional or financial support, we are always there to support if we can. To be accused of doing good for gain is one thing, but to actually use someone’s death for financial gain is just heartless. Money is really not the root of evil. It is the love of money that is the root of all evil. Let’s bury this bad tendency of deliberately not contributing anything for people who we have sworn to help bury with dignity. There is absolutely nothing dignified about cashing in and pretending we did not use their names for financial gain. Again, it is not everyone who did not contribute anything and is asking for the death certificate to cash in. Some really need it as proof to apply for family responsibilities or leave at their respective work places. Nevertheless, those who know very well that it is about the money, need to at least contribute something. Even a bag or two of potatoes or 5kg of chicken is better than nothing. We have to get over the death certificate debacle. * Kabelo Chabalala is the founder of the Young Men Movement (YMM). E-mail: kabelo03chabalala@gmail.com; Twitter, @KabeloJay; Facebook, Kabelo Chabalala ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media.