An accused even had to be taken to a doctor as he suffered from hypertension, which had been exacerbated by the sweltering heat in the court. Some of the usually impeccably dressed legal eagles opted to take off their gowns in court. “We simply cannot breathe. It's a mission to stay awake, let alone concentrate on what we are doing,” Alice Swanepoel, a lawyer in a month-long complicated commercial matter told the Pretoria News. The case was being heard at the Palace of Justice, where the heat was as unbearable as that in the court building across the road. “The heat is very problematic as this is a complex matter and we need to concentrate. Everyone is complaining: the air-cons are not working. Each day we come back to court we hope that they have been fixed, only to face yet another day of discomfort,” she said. Her opposite number, attorney Monique dos Santos, who is from Cape Town and is in Pretoria for the month for the trial, said she was at the end of her tether. “All the windows and doors are closed and there is simply no ventilation. To make matters worse, we face full sunshine in court through the stained glass in the roof,” Dos Santos said. All they could do was drink copious amounts of water, she said. The window in the courts at the Palace of Justice cannot be opened, while the doors have to remain closed due to the bad acoustics in court. Judge Ronel Tolmay, presiding, allowed the claimant in the case to take his jacket off, as he suffered heart problems. Some judges allowed counsel to appear in court without their gowns on, but most of the lawyers and advocates chose rather to bear the sweltering heat as they felt it was not becoming to appear in court without the proper attire. Acting Judge Piet Pistorius, sitting in the criminal court in the high court building, last week told counsel they could remove their gowns if things became too hot. One of the accused in his court fell ill and had to be taken to a doctor. The judge told the defence counsel that he would adjourn the case any time when his client did not feel well. “We are dying inside here,” another advocate, Piet Khenene, said. He estimated the temperature inside court to be 40°C or higher. In some courts, counsel brought in fans to cool down a bit. Some said the air conditioners had not worked in the courts for a while. According to the SA Weather Service, the heat will not ease soon, with temperatures expected to soar into the mid-30s this week. Court manager Jeanette Ngobeni said a new service provider had been appointed. They were working on the air con problems. She could not say when things would cool down. Department of Public Works spokesperson Thamsanqa Mchunu knew nothing about the problem when asked, but said he “would enquire”.