The local plays produced locally include Nyala O, written and directed by Tselane Mashilo from Mamelodi. The play looks at the popular Sotho saying, nyala o nyelle, which means marriage is not easy. Mashilo said her play took a different approach from the general concept people had about marriage. Through the play, she said she challenged a woman’s voice. “The play aims to move away from the general concept of ‘marry and be bitter, unhappy, and miserable’ and all negative things, but rather that you must create your own ending and make marriage what you want it to be,” she said. Mashilo said those coming to watch the play should brace themselves, as the comedic play would “leave no stone unturned”. It would delve into real life discussions to give audiences a different perspective of communication within a marriage. “Nyala o hume, Nyala o thabe, Nyala o tswe kwa gae (Marry and be rich, happy and leave home), all these sayings give us a different recipe as to why people get married,” said Mashilo, 26, who graduated from the University of Pretoria and furthered her drama degree at Wits University. The week-long run starts this Friday and continues until February 18. It features a local cast. Local “smoke artist” Anathi “Elpee” Nkanyuza is also exhibiting his work until February 18. He considers himself an “art addict”. His exhibition is titled, Artdiction. “Art lovers can expect a series of my portraits which depict my love for creating art, and how that love impacts my life,” he said. State theatre spokesperson Kgothatso Setseta said the works featuring local artists were part of their incubator programme which covers artistic works including drama and musical theatre, visual arts, music and dance. “This artistic programme is designed to accelerate the successful transition of semi-professional entrepreneurial artists through an array of business, technical and artistic mentorship. “It takes artists through professional development that assists them in personal development and content creation, production tools, and creates opportunities for the incubatees when they exit the programme,” Setseta said.