Botha told the Western Cape High Court the evidence of the State was of “poor quality” and that it had not proved its case beyond a reasonable doubt. In the final leg of the trial of 23-year-old Van Breda, the defence must convince the Western Cape High Court that the accused’s version of what happened early on January27, 2015, was reasonably possibly true. Van Breda has pleaded not guilty to three counts of murder, one of attempted murder and one of obstructing the ends of justice. The State believes Van Breda was behind the attacks on his family, tampered with the crime scene, that his injuries were self-inflicted to make it look like he, too, had been a victim, and that intruders being able to break into the security estate De Zalze undetected was highly unlikely. Botha, however, insisted that his client was a good witness and had not deviated from his version. He said the State had relied on speculation. “Inference must be drawn from the facts.” Furthermore, he said a neighbour’s testimony that she had heard loud male voices arguing between 10pm and midnight on January26 for two hours “unabated” was impossible. But Judge Desai said there was no reason for an objective witness, who did not know the family, to lie to the court. Botha was adamant, however, that what Stephanie Opt’hof heard was “mistaken” and had in fact been the dramatic, action-packed movie Martin van Breda and his two sons watched that night. WhatsApp messages between Marli and her boyfriend, and Henri and his girlfriend, did not indicate a family fight. The only evidence of a “slight family altercation had been two weeks before that”, Botha said. He told the court that the estate was not secure, and that only 35% of its perimeter had cameras at the time of the incident. Botha said there were “glaring vulnerabilities” in the system and that the windows of the Van Breda home on the ground floor had been unlocked and open. “Neither the pedestrian gate on the eastern side of the Van Breda residence, nor the boundary wall bordering the Locke residence on the western side thereof, would have presented any significant hurdle to perpetrators intent on entering and exiting the property.” He said a bloodstain on the kitchen door fitted in with Van Breda’s version. “The evidence of the bloodstain is consistent with the accused’s testimony that the perpetrators fled the scene after the attacks, exiting through the back door, during which process they would have been compelled to move through the kitchen door, where the stain was found.” He also highlighted the evidence of defence witness and DNA analyst Dr Antonel Olckers, who testified that standard operating procedures at the police’s forensic laboratory had not been followed. “Failure to adhere to these standards, taint the results obtained in the process, rendering the pursuant findings unscientific and void.” He said his client should be acquitted on all counts. - African News Agency (ANA)