“In Sona, he must announce the removal of the minister of finance. This man cannot be trusted and he must not deliver the Budget speech,” Malema said. He made the statement when addressing journalists before Ramaphosa was elected unopposed yesterday. Malema said Gigaba should not be entrusted with the Budget speech next Wednesday. “The Budget he is to present is a Budget of Jacob Zuma's cabinet of thieving. If Ramaphosa is to preside over the Budget of thieving, you have a lot to learn,” he said. Malema said the country could not afford to have Gigaba in the Treasury for another day. “We can't allow our purse to be in the hands of Gigaba, (but) it is up to Cyril,” he said. Ramaphosa was elected yesterday after former president Jacob Zuma resigned on Wednesday night ahead of the debate and vote for the EFF-led motion of no confidence. The EFF did not participate in the election after its bid to have a debate on the dissolution of Parliament failed. Malema said the Constitutional Court had found that Parliament did not play its role in holding Zuma accountable. “No one among us can qualify to be a president of South Africa if Zuma does not qualify,” he said before calling for fresh elections. He insisted that his party would not legitimise another faction of the ANC into power. “Cyril does not qualify to be the president of South Africa. If he thinks so, let him run for elections. Let's get fresh elections.” However, he said Ramaphosa’s election was “fine” and that they would accept it, regardless. “He must know that he is the president of the country that was elected by an illegitimate Parliament. We shall remind him (of) that all the time.” He was adamant that the election of Ramaphosa would simply replace Zuma's corruption stooges with his own. “The recent appointment of Sifiso Dabengwa (to the) Eskom board is a worrying sign that Ramaphosa will replace Zuma thieves with his own thieves,” Malema said, adding that the wife of Dabengwa was the CEO of Ramaphosa’s foundation. Malema also indicated that it would not be a plain sailing for Ramaphosa. “Marikana is still waiting,” Malema said, adding that the victims of the Marikana massacre were waiting for compensation. The EFF has on many occasions said in Parliament that Ramaphosa’s hands were full of blood for his role in the build-up to the incident that claimed more than 30 lives. At the time of the incident, Ramaphosa was a board member of the Lonmin Mines and had asked the authorities to stamp authority during the strike by the workers. Malema dismissed the view that, with Zuma gone, they would no longer do their stunt as a rallying point. He said their cardinal pillars did not have Zuma and also warned against viewing the opposition as irrelevant since Ramaphosa's election as ANC president in December. “If it was not for the opposition, we would not be where we are. "If you wish the opposition away, that will be the end of multiparty democracy.”