Director-general in the National Treasury Dondo Mogajane told Parliament yesterday that after the Budget, they spoke to Moody’s, Fitch and Standard & Poor’s. All of them rallied behind the Budget, saying it ended speculation on policy matters and stuck to fiscal discipline and prudence. Moody’s is next week expected to announce its results on the credit rating of South Africa. Despite fears that Moody’s and other rating agencies would downgrade South Africa, Mogajane said there was hope that it wouldn't happen. Mogajane said they spoke to the three rating agencies after the Budget on Wednesday. “We had three calls from the rating agencies. We spoke to Fitch today (yesterday), and we had Moody’s and S&P. Their preliminary view is that we did well (in the Budget),” said Mogajane. “They understand that out of a tough environment we came out better. Their preliminary view is that we did better than October (during the tabling of the Medium Term Budget Policy Statement),” he said. South Africa had its credit rating cut by the rating agencies over the last year. This was after former president Jacob Zuma fired former finance minister Pravin Gordhan in March last year. Political uncertainty continued to contribute to further negative ratings, and Zuma’s later cabinet reshuffles last year added to the issue. But Mogajane said there was political and policy certainty in the country. He said the rating agencies were happy with the Budget. They did not expect any downgrade soon. Gigaba also said they would continue to stabilise debt, which was beginning to threaten the fiscus. The debt was approaching 60% of the Gross Domestic Product. Mogajane said the issue of the debt was a major item in the budget, and they had to deal with it. He said debt would be stabilised at 56.2%. “If debt becomes unsustainable it becomes a problem. The number that is stabilising at is 56%,” he said. He said the government was spending R160 billion a year to service the debt. “It is important that we contain debt. We want to borrow for investment and not consumption,” said Mogajane. He said the country that was investing in education augured well for economic growth. He said education was the single biggest expenditure item in the budget. Post-school education was sitting at 13% of the total Budget.