ZELDA VENTER THEY behaved themselves like barbarians, a judge commented on Tuesday during legal arguments by the counsel of two men who assaulted a black man so severely by kicking him and even slamming his head into a traffic sign, that he suffered from a cracked skull. He later died in hospital of complications. Sampie Diedericks, 34, of Zandfontein, west of Pretoria, and Louis Coetzer, 36, from Silverton, were earlier convicted in the Gauteng High Court, Pretoria, of murdering Nndwakhulu Charles Magoro. He worked as an agricultural extension officer in the city. They offered to compensate his family by paying them R3 000 a month for five years, but the family declined the offer. The pair are due to be sentenced tomorrow and their lawyers yesterday pleaded with the court to show them mercy. Judge Eben Jordaan said if they were candid with the court and confessed about what really happened that day, it would make things easier. They instead persisted to lie to the court. The two kicked Magoro, 52, while they were wearing boots on October 30 2014, on the corner of Taaifontein Street and Old Moloto Road in Kameeldrift, north of the city. They also slammed him several times against a traffic sign next to the road. Magoro died about a month later in hospital due to head injuries, complicated by pneumonia. He was driving along the Old Moloto Road with his friend Herbert Nevhutanda on that fateful evening. They were on their way to return a cellphone to their friend Thomas Ramapala, which he had earlier left behind in their car. Before Magoro could turn into Taaifontein Street, Coetzer, driving a BMW, flicked his lights at him, after which he stopped. Diedericks, who was in another car following his friend, also stopped his vehicle. An altercation ensued between the two men and Magoro, during which the pair severely assaulted him, kicking him and slamming his head into the traffic sign. Ramapala arrived on the scene and tried to separate the fighting men, but he too was assaulted and threatened by the accused with a firearm. He ran away. An eyewitness told the court that the accused was slammed against the traffic sign with such force that his private parts had hit the pole several times. While Magoro’s family believed the incident was race related, the pairs’ lawyers yesterday told Judge Eben Jordaan that there was no evidence to this. In pleading for mercy for their clients, they said one cannot simply assume that race came into play because it was a cross racial incident. The accused tried to defend themselves by telling the court that they had acted in self-defence. They claimed rocks had been stacked across the road to prevent them from driving. They claimed that when they stopped their vehicle, the victims came running out from behind bushes and tried to attack them. They said they had no choice but to defend themselves. But Judge Eben Jordaan rejected their version as being nonsense. He said it was clear that especially Magoro was tortured. “Why did they do this. Why don't they tell me what happened...He was so badly assaulted that he suffered a fractured skull. That is the cold facts,”  the judge said. Their lawyers argued that if the men were sent to prison for a long time, their children would suffer. But Judge Jordaan said he mostly sentenced accused over the years who also had children and this could not be a reason to keep them out of jail. “It is not nice to break-up families, but I have a duty towards the community,” he said. He commented that Magoro’s family suffered severely due to his death and his children have to make do without a father. The state meanwhile called for a 15 year jail sentence. Prosecutor Alicia Roos said it is clear that they have no remorse for their actions.