This was due to the continued decline in agricultural usage and Capetonians reducing their water usage in co-operation with the City’s efforts to bring down overall consumption. “Team Cape Town, we are getting there. We now need to see how low we can go to ensure that we stretch our water supplies as far as possible into the winter months by reaching the 450 million litre per day collective consumption target which equates to 50 litres per person per day,” said the City. Over the past week, consumption has been lowered to 526 million litres per day. This is the first time that the weekly average usage has remained under 550 million litres due to the City’s pressure management interventions and the efforts by residents to use as little water as possible. Cape Town and other areas of the Western Cape are in the grips of a devastating drought which has led to the implementation of severe water restrictions. A year ago, the average water demand was 830 million litres per day and the weekly change in dam levels was 1.9%. This was compared to usage of more than 1 billion litres per day and a weekly change of 2.1% two years ago. “If our dam levels were currently dropping at this rate we would reach Day Zero before the end of March. Our dam levels declined by 0.6% over the past week. Importantly, dam levels are at only 24.9% compared to 36.1% last year and 43.3% in 2016,” Cape Town deputy mayor Ian Neilson said. “Though the dam levels are much lower than a year ago, we have more information and more control over the system that supplies water to the city. Our continued interactions with the national Department of Water and Sanitation have led to much improved data-sharing and analysis, allowing for more reliable modelling and dramatically improved control over dam levels,” Neilson added. The City further urged residents to continue to work as a team to lower water consumption to 450 million litres per day as required, saying Cape Town will become known as one of the most resilient cities in the world. “We are fast becoming a leading example of a large city that is fundamentally changing its relationship with water. We are very grateful to the farming sector, especially associations such as the Groenland Water Users’ Association for their water transfer to the Steenbras dam, and to the national department for facilitating this supply injection. In accepting this transfer, we acknowledge the sacrifices that many in the farming sector have made during this extreme drought,” the City said. It would continue to implement pressure management to reduce usage, to install water management devices at the properties of high users and to conduct blitzes to ensure that all water users adhere to the water restrictions, the City said. All preparations for the possibility of reaching Day Zero also continue as planned. “We must all keep doing everything in our power to reach the target set by the national department to reduce our urban usage by 45%. Level 6b restrictions make it compulsory for residents to use no more than 50 litres per person per day to stretch our supplies,” the City added. - African News Agency (ANA)