Her passion for health and wellness helped her win the title and she has since used it to educate and create awareness around health and rare diseases as her child was diagnosed with a life-limiting rare disease, cystic fibrosis, at 6 weeks old. Capper runs an organisation called Inside Out that connects the youth of the country with their sporting and business heroes at school events. “I want to inspire the future world shakers to find their strengths, celebrate them and work hard to achieve their full potential.” “For this year, I want to live each day in full colour, to be inspired and to inspire South Africa that nothing can hold them back from achieving their goals and dreams,” she said. Entries are now open for the women who want to take on the role after Capper. The Tammy Taylor Mrs South Africa kick-starts their annual roadshow calling for entries starting today in Durban. The roadshow will run in Durban until February 11. The roadshow will see married women between the ages of 25 to 50 interact, learn and get mentorship from the Mrs South Africa team, including Capper. The roadshow will move to Cape Town from February 16 to 18 and then to Joburg on February 24. Each information session will also include a special question-and-answer session focusing on the opportunities gained should they enter. Those who think they have got what it takes to be the next Mrs South Africa can enter online by visiting www.mrssouthafrica.co.za. “The Mrs South Africa movement showcases the virtues of South Africa, the spirit of Ubuntu, and the real women of our country. Gone are the stereotypes that do not match the individual, bearing the burden of a crown of ideals being placed upon their head diminishing the power of their womanhood to the stigma of unattainable beauty, but instead showcasing true beauty that shines from within and celebrate every woman in her unique femininity.” said founder Joani Johnson. She said the programme was created for married women who would ordinarily not have such a platform to compete and be ambassadors for South Africa on a global scale. “Through the journey of Mrs South Africa, women find themselves again and learn that they are never too old to follow their dreams and become voices of change,” said Johnson.