Briefing Parliament’s communications portfolio committee yesterday, Kubayi-Ngubane said the public broadcaster was in agreement with the amendments made by her ministry. “We hope between us and the SABC to agree on the MOI, which is almost done. We have developed the MOI and we sent it to the SABC for them to look and agree so that they send it back,” Kubayi-Ngubane said. “I am happy to report that the SABC are happy with what we propose with the amendments,” she said. Kubayi-Ngubane said that once the SABC finalised its corporate plan, the MOI would be registered with the Companies and Intellectual Properties Commission. The move will bring an end to the confusion over the powers of the minister in the affairs of the public broadcaster. Last year, the MOI was a subject of a court process where then minister Ayanda Dlodlo was taken to court over her powers in the appointment of the top executives at the SABC. The last valid MOI was signed by then minister Yunus Carrim and registered with CIPC in 2013. His successor Faith Muthambi amended the MOI in 2014, but it was never signed in line with the Companies Act. This MOI had given Muthambi power to appoint the CEO, COO and CFO. The court had deemed the powers of the minister as undermining the independence of the SABC and also contravening the Broadcasting Act. Kubayi-Ngubane has since lodged an application to rescind the judgment, saying it was based on the invalid MOI of 2014. Yesterday, the minister was hopeful that the finalisation of the MOI would bring an end to the court challenge. She also said that as soon as the SABC finalised its corporate plan, the newly-signed MOI and shareholder contract would be registered with CIPC. “We had asked the SABC to submit a proposed corporate plan by last year; they have not complied. I met with them in January and we gave them a second deadline. They’ve missed that deadline.” Kubayi-Ngubane said they were aiming to have the matter finalised at the end of the month. Parliament will receive a copy of the new MOI when the department submits its annual performance plans and other budget-relate documents in April. The amended MOI was hailed by the committee with the ANC’s Mziwamadoda Kalako saying “the only valid is the one for 2013 which you said you work on now”. DA MP Phumzile van Damme and the ANC’s Sisisi Tolashe were equally pleased that the confusion over the MOIs was to be cleared. Tolashe, however, said the SABC should be urged to meet deadlines. “There is a new sheriff in town so there are things that we are not to tolerate. Advise them, minister, that deadlines must be met,” she said in reference to delays finalising their corporate plan. “We know they are independent, but the buck stops with the minister,” Tolashe said.