National Press Club spokesperson Lali van Zuydam did it to cleanse her soul from the negativity of last year and wanting to start this one on a good note. “Last year was not my year. I went through a break-up and had a death in the family so everything was not well at all, but this year I have planned to focus on myself. “I challenged myself to do something physical; hence I participated in the race,” she said yesterday. She took to the annual challenge for the first time on Saturday: “and the experience was fantastic,” she said. Having proven that she could swim a mile in the Pietermaritzburg dam - one of the world’s largest open water swimming events - was evidence enough that she could do anything she set her mind to.. “Today marks a year since I made a commitment that I was going to focus on myself. The past weekend was the best for me and taking part in the race was the best thing I have ever done.” Both amateurs and serious athletes flocked to KwaZulu-Natal to participate in the highly anticipated milestone on the sporting calendar, which is also listed in the Guinness World Records. Blind long-distance swimmer and Tshwane DA councillor, Hentie Nortje, was among them. Nortje joined the thousands to tackle the 45th edition of the swim to raise funds for the elderly in what he said was the 18th consecutive time for a worthy cause. His aim was to swim for the benefit of Sunnyside shelter Harmonie Oord. “I want to assist them to improve their lifestyle this is part of my personal project to give back to the city,” he explained. He said he shared the vision of mayor Solly Msimanga of a caring culture in the City. “The passion of having a caring capital city starts with looking after the underprivileged, who could be the elderly, children and the disabled. We have many challenges in this capital and in many ways I believe we must work together to make this a caring capital, to look after our people,” he said. He wanted to play his part in alleviating their daily financial hardships. “They get R1600 pension grants every month and their living expenses cost each of them R2100 per month. So their social grants are not enough.” Nortje, an attorney, was deployed by his party to do political work in Ward 81, which includes Sunnyside. “If one has opportunities as a blind or disabled person we must always give back to the community. We look after the poor and the elderly, and for that reason I decided to raise money by swimming my 18th consecutive Midmar Mile,” he said. “I would like people to support my campaign to raise money for Harmonie Oord, which does not receive government funding. If any-one could donate R20 we could do a lot to improve lives of those people.”