This followed Mbete’s decision yesterday that there would not be any special sitting before the Sona is held in Parliament. The ANC also entered the fray with party chief whip Jackson Mthembu saying no party can force the Speaker when to schedule the motion of no-confidence debate. Mthembu said the Speaker would decide without any duress from any party when the motion will be debated in the House. In a briefing to the media, Mbete was backed by Deputy Speaker Lechesa Tsenoli that there would be no special sitting before next week Thursday. In a meeting of the programming committee, Ntombovuyo Mente, of the EFF, said they had written to the Speaker requesting the debate. But Mthembu told her that they couldn't force Mbete to schedule a motion of no confidence debate before the Sona. Mente said they would consider going to court if the Speaker failed to have this before next Thursday. “Did you chief whip consider the damning judgment of the Constitutional Court and yesterday (Zuma) made his last representations to the NPA. If you did not consider this, we will see each other in court,” said Mente. House chairperson Thoko Didiza said they couldn't speculate on Zuma’s future as this was being discussed by the ANC. She said the Speaker would consider the request of the EFF. Mthembu said Mbete had consulted them and there was a date on the table for the motion to be debated, but he did not give out the details. “A request for the motion of no confidence is for the Speaker to schedule. No party can tell the Speaker when to schedule the motion. "We can confirm she has consulted with us and the speaker will respond on a date for a motion of no confidence,” said Mthembu. Mbete said there would be no special sitting before the Sona. “I want to underline the answer by the deputy Speaker and the answer is 'no', we won’t have a special sitting before the Sona,” said Mbete. Tsenoli and National Council of Provinces chairperson Thandi Modise insisted the Sona would go ahead as scheduled. The security arrangements will be in place against any possible disruption by the EFF. The EFF has since August 2014 been disrupting proceedings in the National Assembly including previous Sonas. The debate on next week’s Sona came as the rules committee, chaired by Mbete, agreed on the new rules to impeach the president. The rules committee agreed that a committee of Parliament would have to be set up, with the assistance of experts, to drive the impeachment process. She said this work would have to be completed before the end of March. The agreement of the rules committee on a committee of MPs to drive the process meant the proposal of the EFF that a panel of retired judges must be the ones who impeach the president was rejected.