They made the promise during the auditions at the South African State Theatre in Pretoria on Saturday. Among them was 29-year-old Queen-Victoria Skosana from Bronkhorstspruit. “There has only been one winner from Pretoria in the history of Idols and I want to change that,” she said. “The city needs me to bring it home; it is about time the title came to Tshwane and only I can make that happen.” First in the queue, Skosana said she arrived in the CBD at 7am on Friday and had queued for the auditions since. “I was the only one when I got here and I did not care because that is how bad I want to win this.” Others began to arrive at about 9pm. Skosana is a returnee as she auditioned last year, but did not make the cut. She said, however, that this was her year. “This year I am going to give it my all because it is my last opportunity. I’m turning 30 and will no longer be eligible,” she said. Tiisetso Mahlangu, 21, from Soshanguve, said she was was also hungry for the title. Mahlangu said she was bringing something out of the ordinary: “It is the first time I am auditioning and I know I will win as I have been singing since the age of 5.” The only reason Pretoria artists had not won since 2014 was because she had not entered the competition before, she said. In the past, the competition has seen many go to the extremes of sleeping on pavements to secure a good place in the queue to audition before the judges. This time was no different as many spent the night there just to be at the front of the queue. The hopefuls had blankets, camp chairs and winter jackets to prove they had spent the night, while others were seen sleeping in cars. Vincent Bones, who won the contest in 2014, has been the only city contestant crowned since the start of the reality show in 2002, but won the talent show as a KwaZulu-Natal resident. Bones spoke at the time of spending two years on the streets of Sunnyside begging for money and digging in rubbish bins for food after his mother and father died when he was 12 years old. However, he later found shelter at Boys Town, a facility in Magaliesburg, and landed a job as a praise worship leader at a church in Pietermaritzburg, where he met his wife. After him, city contestants have come close to victory but were not quite good enough to claim it. Among them was Mmatema Moremi, 2015 runner-up, and ­Botlhale Phora, who made it to the Season 13’s top three.