ZELDA VENTER SIX-month-old Tebatso Choche was found in a seated position in a  bucket of urine, with her head turned upwards towards the lid which was tightly secured. It is not clear whether she drowned in the urine or if she simply suffocated. But one thing is certain; Mamelodi East resident Mandla Chauke, 29, placed the defenceless baby inside the bucket. He then placed a second bucket filled with water on top of it. There was no way that the defenceless baby, who could not crawl and could hardly sit-up by herself, could have escaped her deathtrap. This is according to Acting Judge Piet Pistorius, who on Thursday convicted Chauke of murder in the Gauteng High Court, Pretoria. Judge Pistorius said the State had proved premeditated murder beyond reasonable doubt. He said by placing the lid tightly on the bucket and by placing a second bucket on top of it, Chauke wanted to ensure that no one detected the helpless baby. This act was planned, he said. The child’s mother, Boikgontsho Choche, earlier testified that she and the baby went to visit Chauke on December 15 2016, at his home. She mostly carried the baby on her back, but she did feed her porridge and breastfed her at a stage. According to her the baby was healthy and alive when she placed her on the bed that night, before they went to sleep. Chauke, who was also convicted of assault, became abusive that night and Choche said she fled from his shack early the next morning, to ask for help. She told Chauke she was going to buy some eggs, but he made her leave her shoes and her baby behind. Choche went to the police, where she was left waiting for hours at the police station as they did not have the resources to assist her immediately. She was told by the police to return to the shack and take care of her baby, but she refused as she feared Chauke. When the police returned to the shack with her several hours later, the door was locked with a padlock. They managed to open it and  she assisted in searching for the baby. Choche said she saw the baby’s blankets under the bed and thought the child was wrapped in it. The searched continued and her uncle, who was apart of the search party, made the grizzly find inside the bucket. The mother said she did not even wait for the police to take the child out. She scooped the baby out of the bucket and tried to resuscitate the lifeless body. She then rushed the baby to hospital with the help of the police, where a doctor declared her dead on arrival. It is not clear how long the baby had remained inside the bucket, but a doctor testified that it could have taken several minutes for the child to have died. Cauke denied any knowledge of the murder, although he did admit that he was the only one with a key to his shack. He claimed that when the mother arrived the previous day, the baby was already dead. He said the child was very quiet and said he never paid it any attention. He was only interested in the mother. But Judge Pistorius rejected this and said it was absurd to imagine that the mother would carry a dead baby on her back for the entire day and then sleep next to the corpse. He said Chauke appeared uncomfortable in the witness box and he later turned arrogant when he battled to answer questions from the prosecution. Chauke meanwhile did not seem fazed by his fate and cheerfully spoke to his friends in the public gallery. Sentencing proceedings will commence on Monday.