Chemical engineering student Helen Olivier and her boyfriend Jan Kotze were caught off guard as they waited at a traffic light in the CBD on their way to Brits. The 23-year-old and her boyfriend, 29, said they were on Es’kia Mphahlele Drive when a man grabbed the cellphone and ran up a one-way towards the taxi rank last Saturday. “I drove around the block to cut him off and met constables Rudzani Makakavhula, Sedzani Mutshembele and Tshishonga Rathando who noticed I was in distress. They all went towards the taxi rank in Marabastad, despite the young couple believing the search for the thief was a waste of time. “With so many people coming and going, including a bus, I believed that it was a waste of time, but I gave my details to Makakavhula who seemed determined. He promised they would not rest until they caught him,” he said. The officers patrolled the area and came across two men who looked suspicious. They approached them and searching them, they found that one of them had the phone. He took the phone from his pocket, threw in on the ground and ran away, disappearing into the crowds. The officers were able to contact Olivier and Kotze late that night to come to the station to identify a recovered cellphone, which they did the following day. When they got there, the young pair were able to open the security pattern with just one try. An ecstatic and very appreciative Olivier said: “To be honest, when I saw the man running with my phone I just thought my phone was gone. “As a student, and with the strikes happening so frequently a lot of classes are moved online. I watch videos online and visit the website frequently for academic activities through my smartphone. I would definitely have struggled without it. I need it to keep up to date and that is why I am so grateful to the policemen,” she said. The story of heroic actions of the law men has been well received and shared numerous times on social media, especially because they refused to be thanked with a gift, saying that they were only doing their job. Kotze said what happened restored his faith in the metro police because he was used to being stopped only when he would be given a ticket. Like many people on social media, he felt that stories like these needed to be shared more frequently just because the public bombarded social media with complaints about the metro police. Metro police spokesperson Senior Superintendent Isaac Mahamba said: “We are proud of these officers who go the extra mile to perform their duties, as we strive to make the city safe for all citizens. “We won’t rest until we are sure criminals are brought to book, and we will make sure they don’t have space to operate as we know that the area is a hotspot. “We advise all members of the community to continue to be vigilant when approaching such areas,” he said.