Hardly a week goes by without a large crowd and resultant traffic congestion snaking down Madiba Street en route to either Tshwane House or the Union Buildings. Other destinations for the protests are government departments that are scattered throughout the heart of the capital, the usual targets being Higher Education and Health. Traditionally, most of the protests have been service delivery-related, but recent trends have seen the tone become political. The city has over the past year seen protests by masses calling for the resignation of President Jacob Zuma. Major protests that come to mind include those by students and another against xenophobia, as well as #BlackMonday, which called for an end to farm murders. To stage a protest, an application has to be sent to the Tshwane Metro Police Department, which has a set of requirements before the request is approved. Chief among this is the destination - the applicant must indicate where the march is headed to as well as the recipient of the memorandum. However, the department has on several occasions indicated that permission for a march has not been granted, but it would police it nonetheless as it has a constitutional duty to protect lives and property. The most recent example is the huge march by the ANC Youth League in Tshwane and former Expanded Public Works beneficiaries. In days leading up to the march, the City indicated that permission had not been granted and thus the march would be illegal, but it went ahead nonetheless - under the watchful eye of the metro police. This scenario played itself out previously when taxi men and later truck drivers descended on the city, causing major inconveniences. The change of political masters at Tshwane House has seen an increase in politically-motivated marches, but perhaps none comes close to the resistance of 2016 when the ANC - then ruling party in the city - announced MP Thoko Didiza as its mayoral candidate. That march spread to almost all townships in the capital. Protests are synonymous with being an unhappy South African; in fact, according to Wikipedia, the country has been dubbed the protest capital of the world and has one of the highest rates of public protests in the world. In The Anti-Apartheid Struggle in South Africa (1912-1992), Lester Kurtz wrote that the timeline of conflict begins with the founding of Cape Town in 1652 by the Dutch East India Company as a halfway station between the Netherlands and the East Indies. As it developed into a settlement, it was populated by the European ancestors of the Afrikaners, who eventually were the white minority comprising less than 20% of the population, but who had nearly complete control of the nation’s government and economy. As resistance to the system increased, increasingly restrictive legislation was passed; non-whites were forcibly removed from their homes and relocated to segregated neighbourhoods. Any hint of dissidence was repressed, from the banning of individuals and organisations from public life to the imposition of martial law. The ANC, created in 1912, was the major institutional vehicle of the resistance, at first emphasising legal forms of protest and shifting to a more militant non-violent direct action campaign in the early 1950s. The violent resistance was limited to occasional bombings of government facilities and avoidance of civilian deaths. Resistance was to continue being part of the Struggle in decades that followed, including the historic march by women to the Union Buildings in 1956. The pressure contributed to the unbanning of the ANC and other liberation movements and eventually the fall of the apartheid regime. Kertz further stated the current wave of protests dates back to the 1970s, and during the 2004/05 financial year about 6000 protests were officially recorded, an unknown number of protests went unrecorded, and about 1000 protests were illegally banned. This meant that at least 15 protests were taking place each day in South Africa at that time. While the apartheid regime dealt with protests by banning them altogether, the democratic South Africa made mass actions legal and constitutional as a proudly South African way to be heard. Last year, a video circulating on social media revealed that the organisers of some protests were paying lots of money to rent the right crowd for the occasion. But at the end of the day there has to be a limit for the sake of workers, students, pupils and the general public that are inconvenienced every week. If the City discloses that a march is illegal as no permission was granted, such event must not take place. In a democratic society, it is important to allow citizens to express themselves and protest - but there should be an alternative way to engage with those in power, which should not
always include placards, bricks, stones
burning tyres, singing and closing roads. Mudzuli is Pretoria News assistant editor. He writes in a personal capacity