A group of BLF members tried to march to Luthuli House, but were kept at a distance at the Beyers Naudé Square by the police and ANC security for Magashule to receive their memorandum of demands. The BLF members demanded that Magashule, or his deputy Jessie Duarte, accept their memorandum because they did not trust the other members of the ANC Top 6. Soon after Magashule accepted the memorandum he was booed, insulted and even pelted with water bottles as his security detail shielded him from angry ANC members and supporters. ”Ace must go! Ace is a thief!” they screamed and sang. Magashule briefly addressed the BLF members after accepting their memorandum, thanking them for being disciplined. ”I am happy that you are so disciplined. We will talk about the things the NWC (national working committee) is meeting now; I will hand over the report, I will brief them about it,” Magashule promised BLF members. In its memorandum, the BLF is demanding that the ANC leadership reject calls for President Jacob Zuma to step down, among others. After Magashule was whisked back into Luthuli House, angry ANC members surrounded party spokesperson Khusela Diko and grilled her about the Free State premier’s decision to accept the BLF memorandum and address it while snubbing them. Yesterday, the ANC condemned the vicious assault of an elderly woman who was part of a group of BLF members who arrived wearing its T-shirts. ANC branch secretary in Hillbrow Thabiso Setona was caught assaulting the woman and the party said there would never be any justification for the scenes witnessed yesterday. ”Disturbing in the extreme is the assault of women in such a callous and dehumanising manner,” it said. The ANC called on law enforcement agencies to act without fear or favour to bring the perpetrators to book and that should they be found to be its members, relevant structures must without delay institute disciplinary proceedings. Over the weekend, organisers of the #ZumaMustGo campaign had claimed that they were expecting as many as 90 buses to transport ANC members opposed to Zuma’s rule from across Gauteng and had packed three hotels with people from as far as the Eastern Cape, Free State, Mpumalanga and Limpopo. However, the march was not well attended and the BLF managed to bring in more people for its 
#HandsOffZuma counter protest. Earlier, organisers of the BLF march were seen mingling among the #ZumaMustGo protesters hours before marching towards Luthuli House to assess their numbers.