The Council for the Advancement of the South African Constitution (Casac), Corruption Watch and Freedom Under Law submitted a confirmation order to the Constitutional Court arguing that it would not be in the interests of justice for Abrahams to make the decision on Zuma’s prosecution before the judges make a decision on the position of the NDPP. Speaking to Independent Media yesterday, executive secretary Lawson Naidoo said Abrahams had already given Casac the undertaking but “now we just want him to give the same to the court”. The position that Abrahams currently holds was declared vacant by the Gauteng High Court, Pretoria, in December following an array of court proceedings surrounding the removal of former NDPP Mxolisi Nxasana, the golden handshake between Nxasana and Zuma and the appointment of Abrahams. Nxasana left office with a R17million golden handshake, which was later found to be part of an unlawful settlement agreement and Nxasana was ordered to pay back the money. Since the court found Zuma too conflicted to appoint a new NDPP as his looming charges were being decided upon, it was decided that the then deputy president (Cyril Ramaphosa) would make the appointment. Since Zuma resigned last week, Casac noted that the issue of who will make the appointment was now considered moot. The Constitutional Court is set to hear the confirmation application on February 28. In the order, Casac said that the “only real debate” was what should happen to Nxasana and Abrahams. According to the court documents, Casac says there are three possibilities: Nxasana is returned to his position as NDPP; Abrahams retains his position as NDPP; or, both are removed and a new NDPP is appointed by the new president. Casac argued that in deciding what was just and equitable, the court should not consider the primary interests of Nxasana and Abrahams as this was not an employment issue but a “constitutional dispute about an attempt to undermine one of our central crime-fighting 
institutions”. “ the primary concern must be whatever best serves to preserve the independence of the NPA,” Casac argued. Their court submission read that Abrahams was appointed to fill a position which was tainted by the unlawful removal of Nxasana. “Whomever had been appointed as the new NDPP would reasonably be perceived as being more amenable to (Zuma’s) interests than Mr Nxasana was. And that fundamentally undermines the perception of independence of the NPA, and the actual independence of the NPA.” Casac further argued that Abrahams should have been aware of that fact as he knew, when he accepted the appointment, that he was stepping into an office that had a vacancy only because the previous incumbent had been paid R17.3m to vacate it.