Yesterday Zukiswa Rantho, chairperson of the portfolio committee on public enterprises, confirmed Mkhize had written to the committee asking to be respond to Montana, the erstwhile chief financial officer of the Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa. “He (Mkhize) has already made the application. I have forwarded it to the evidence leader (advocate Ntuthuzelo Vanara),” Rantho said. She was in Joburg yesterday as part of a delegation meeting the new Eskom board and other members of the management team. Rantho assured South Africans that Mkhize will be afforded an opportunity to respond to Montana’s allegations that he tried to solicit a 10% bribe for the ANC from a R465million contract awarded to Swifambo Rail Leasing to build locomotives for Prasa in 2014. Rantho and her committee have come under attack for allegedly failing to question Montana about the damning report of former public protector Thuli Madonsela, titled “Derailed” which implicated the former Prasa boss in corruption. In her reply to the critics, Rantho reportedly said the main reason that Montana appeared before the committee was to clear his name after he was mentioned in a media briefing by Deputy Minister of Public Enterprises Ben Martins. Rantho said it would be wrong if she did not clarify the matter as social media reports criticised the committee on how it handled Montana. “Social media reports have called us fools for not asking the right questions. We have said at the start of the inquiry that people who've been named and implicated during the course of the inquiry will be afforded an opportunity to present before the committee, to give their side of the story,” Rantho said. She confirmed that Mkhize would be allowed to respond to Montana’s testimony. Mkhize did not respond to messages on his phones. All his cellphones were off. Yesterday, Montana also did not respond. ANC spokesperson Khusela Diko reiterated the party had no knowledge of any attempts to get a bribe for the organisation. “We are on record saying we will never support any attempt by anybody to solicit bribes in the name of the ANC, so we will continue to reject those allegations. We will also welcome any investigation that would seek to get to the bottom of the matter,” Diko said. On Wednesday, the EFF laid a criminal charge of corruption against Mkhize at the Hillbrow police station based on Montana’s testimony before the parliamentary inquiry. Testifying before the portfolio committee on Tuesday, Montana said a number of people, including the Guptas, allegedly wanted a stake in the R50billion locomotive deal. He said the Guptas wanted Chinese company, China Rail South, to secure the deal while others known to him to be ANC members apparently wanted a Canadian company. His testimony shocked the committee when he said Mkhize summoned him to Luthuli House -ANC headquarters in Joburg - where Mkhize had initially tried to persuade him to cancel the tender to Swifambo Rail Leasing. He said he told Mkhize that it would be legally impossible to do so saying: “I told him that Swifambo can take Prasa to court and get the R50billion without any obligation to deliver the locomotives.” Montana said when he stood firm, Mkhize allegedly accused him of having given a lucrative tender to a French company despite knowing the extent of brutality committed by the French on some of the African countries they colonised. “He (Mkhize) made veiled threats that he will deal with us. One of his accusations was that we were giving the ANC 'peanuts'  while we took the bulk of the money for ourselves,” Montana said. When they could not reach an agreement, Mkhize allegedly sought the 10% bribe when his former firm was due to make an initial payment to Swifambo. Montana claimed some ANC “comrades” also wanted to steal from the state like the Guptas.