JAMES MAHLOKWANE South Africa was the 39th driest country in the world and it needed to recycle water from waste, desalinate and make conjunctive use of groundwater to improve its water management, said Accentuate Chief Executive Fred Platt. Platt was briefing the media alongside Janigraph Environmental Advisor professor Anthony Turton during a National Press Club conference in Pretoria while parliament also sat to discuss the country's water shortage. Parliament announced that it was set to officially declare Cape Town's water shortage a crisis in the next coming weeks in order to free funds to address the shortage which has since posed the risk of Day Zero expected on May 11. Turton said although Day Zero was recently moved from April 16 to May 11, the event was here and it was set to happen and there were no questions if except when exactly will it take place. He said Day Zero was a Titanic that hit an iceberg and all that was left was for it to sink. Platt and Turton said this was a time for the country to depoliticise water, stop pointing fingers and realise that water shortage was serious enough to affect food security, the economy and people's personal hygiene. Platt said: "Water is the ultimate economic enabler. Cities around the world are built around water and when we don't understand that, we will struggle. Look at the Karoo, there are some people living there but there is no development because it is dry. Water would enable development." He said Cape Town now faced a risk of development coming to a standstill and ultimately that would affect the rest of the country because the city was a window to look at South Africa for the rest of the world. "Many communities in South Africa faced the challenge of Day Zero everyday. This shows that South Africa needs the political will to understand the value of water because infrastructure and delivery of water became the responsibility of government.” Platt said infrastructure and business development were driven by water and if water was not properly managed, the country would run out of this resource which could not be supplemented. Turton said South Africa should have started addressing the water crisis a long time ago because the shortage was not a surprise. The country as a whole needed to work together to practise the recycling of water from waste as that proved to be a working method in many countries and several South African businesses that already made a conscious decisions to recycle most  waste water. He said today even Gauteng was water insecure and an increase in this insecurity was expected until 2025. To counter this insecurity, the country needed to improve waste water recycling efforts, increase desalination of salted water and make use of underground water. He said Tshwane was a classic example of a city that took advantage of its underground water which is found largely at the Rietvlei Nature Reserve’. The panel concluded that more still needed to be done for the country to properly manage its water, but for that to happen smoothly, unnecessary political interference needed to be curbed. Meanwhile, Cape Town residents remained obliged to use less than 50 liters per person per day to satisfy the Level 6B water restrictions. A drop in agriculture water use resulted in the recent push of Day Zero but the city still needed to save 100 million litres more per day to avoid the looming Day Zero.