Rowan Matthews, an Australian businessman, his wife Lynn and and their three children launched an application in the Gauteng High Court, Pretoria, for Rowan’s brother Michael Matthews to pay back nearly R2million that they claim he took out of the Brian Matthews Family Trust. They said in papers before court that Michael, a businessman from White River in Mpumalanga, had no permission to remove the money from the trust. All the parties before court are beneficiaries of the trust, while both Rowan and Michael are trustees. The claim to have the money paid back is still pending before court, but Michael in the meantime hit back at his brother in an application in which he asked the court to rule that Rowan and his family first had to set down an amount of R500000 for security of costs, before their application could go ahead. Michael’s reasoning was that his brother and his family lived abroad and he wanted to ensure through the security of costs that if they lost their application against him, the legal bill would be covered. Judge Ntendeya Mavundla, in the opening of his judgment over this issue, said: “The application for costs is in my view a broedertwis (a war between brothers). “It reveals the strained relations between two brothers over a golden nest their late father left them, in the form of a family trust.” The judge said Michael had directed his anger not only towards his brother, but also the latter’s wife and children. “What raised his ire is their temerity to accuse him of having dipped his hand in the golden nest and removed one of the golden eggs in the amount of approximately R2million, and demanding that he return it to the nest.” Judge Mavundla further said Michael, embarrassed at being discovered, denied the accusations “with tongue in cheek and tendered to return to the nest R40000”. He said that, still fuming, Michael unleashed this application for security of costs before they could proceed with their application against him. Michael said it would greatly assist him if the court ordered in his favour, because if they were unsuccessful with their bid against him, “he would not have to follow them offshore, to unknown territory to recover the costs”. Rowan is said to be a wealthy businessman living in Perth, who holds a 50% share in a company called MERB Ltd, which is the holding company for the shares in Douglasdale Dairy. Rowan is thus indirectly a 50% shareholder of Douglasdale Dairy, and he has an unmortgaged house on the Douglasdale farm worth R7.4m. From time to time he comes to South Africa to attend to his business interests. Judge Mavundla concluded that it was not in the interest of the family trust to grant Michael’s application, and he dismissed his application with costs. The judge in this regard said: “To demand of the plaintiffs (Rowan and his family) to deposit security for costs, in light of the serious accusations of pilfering by the sixth defendant (Michael), would do injustice to the family trust, which as trustees and beneficiaries they are duty bound to strive to protect.” The judge said if the court, during the main application, indeed ordered against Rowan, the latter had enough business interests in South Africa that Michael could attach to secure the payment of costs.