RAPULA MOATSHE Disgruntled security guards working for a company contracted to the City of Tshwane have called on mayor Solly Msimanga not to renew the municipality's contract with the company when it expires in March. The guards accused managers at Sida security company of failing to honour their contractual obligation to pay them at the end of every month. They bitterly complained that their employer had the tendency to process their salaries very late. Workers were also aggrieved that their employer would fail to notify them in advance of glitches that resulted in late-payments. On Tuesday, the group of 20 guards met at Church Square where they complained that they had not yet received their salaries for January. According to them, they had consistently been paid late by their company since 2013. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  Speaking on their behalf Isaac Sibanda said the solution to their ongoing exploitation could be effected by Msimanga by not renewing the company contract with the City at the end of March. Sibanda said the situation negatively affected at least 200 guards employed by the company. He said the guards wanted the municipality to remove the "middleman and take them on board as its permanent employees". The guards aired their grievances on the eve of the court appearance of 23 of their colleagues in the Pretoria Magistrate’s Court. On Wednesday, the 23 guards will appear on charges of public violence following their participation in last year's violent march in the CBD. Many guards sustained injuries when the metro police officers fired rubber bullets to disperse them from engaging in an illegal strike. Their protest was staged as a result of a call by the municipality to replace them with metro police officers. They also demanded to be employed permanently in the municipality.