Directed by Ryan Coogler, it is based on the Marvel Comics character of the same name and stars Chadwick Boseman, Danai Gurira, and Lupita Nyong’o in a stellar cast of black actors, including Michael B Jordan, Martin Freeman, Daniel Kaluuya, Letitia Wright, Winston Duke, with Angela Bassett, Forest Whitaker and Andy Serkis. The South African actor John Kani stars as King T’Challa, ruler of the fictional African kingdom Wakanda, and father to the lead character, played by Boseman, while his son Atandwa appears as the young king. Another South African in the cast is Connie Chiume. Kani was among those to attend Friday night’s Joburg red carpet premiere, at which Gurira and Nyong’o were present. He said the movie came at the right time, and expressed pride at seeing an “Afrofuturistic society” that celebrates traditional cultures and dreams of what Africa can be. “We’re struggling to find leaders that are exemplary and role models so when you see the Black Panther as a young boy and he takes off that mask you think, ‘Oh my God, he looks like me. He is African and I am African. Now we can look up to some person who is African’.” While the country is fictional, the film-makers have used isiXhosa to solidify the story’s African authenticity. The film has obliterated box office records in countries across the world for its opening weekend, with an estimated global debut of $361 million (R4.2billion) by Sunday - already more than its $200m budgeted cost. “This is proof that the big screen experience - emotional, communal and immersive - may arguably be the most powerful platform of change in our society,” said Paul Dergarabedian, senior media analyst with comScore in a report in Variety. In the story, after the death of his father, the King of Wakanda, T’Challa returns home to the isolated, technologically advanced African nation to succeed to the throne and is challenged by rival factions. Reviews and previews of the $200m budget movie gave a myriad reasons why it is a must-see: the film has a majority black cast; the manner in which Africa is represented; and it advances black women, who all play prominent roles. This is what some social media users had to say about the film: William Jackson Harper @dubjackharper: “Black Panther is the movie I wish existed when I was growing up. If you are the parent of a black child, they have to see this. It’s more important than you know.” @sincerelychas: “Black Panther was such a good movie. I’m honestly so happy about the representation of African culture in it. I feel like for the longest time America has forced black people to view themselves as just black and not as their African culture.” @abegaddi: “I love the fact that the Wakanda warriors in Black Panther are women.” @brownlashon: “Seeing black folks react to Black Panther makes me want to see every minority experience big-budget mainstream representation. I want to see gay superheroes, Mexican and Latino superheroes, Asian superheroes.”