Zuma’s imminent departure from the Union Buildings was yesterday hastened by the ANC taking an unequivocal decision to recall him from the highest office after days of defiance. All eyes will today be on whether Zuma will give in and resign, as is expected by his organisation. Zuma was expected to address the media at 10am at the Union Buildings. ANC chairman Gwede Mantashe warned Zuma that if Zuma continued to refuse to obey, the ANC would have no option but to allow a motion of no confidence in him to take place. “A disciplined cadre of the ANC, you are given a chance to resign on your own, but if you lack discipline you will resist.” Yesterday, some ANC MPs were readying themselves to vote with the opposition to oust him if he continued to refuse to resign, as pressure inside and outside the organisation for him to go reached boiling point. So deep was were concerns over Zuma’s continued stay in office - which he wanted to be three to six months - that a cabinet meeting scheduled for today was 
postponed. Communications Minister Kubayi-Ngubane said: “We are alive to the developments taking place in the ruling party.  Government reassures South Africans that service delivery will not be impacted upon”. Even some of his family members have implored the president to call it a day. Zuma’s nephew, Inkosi Simphiwe Zuma, has on called his uncle to give up the fight and resign. “I now agree that he should step down because the ANC has taken the decision, which we have to respect. But it will be up to him to comply as I have not spoken to him. “I know that he is an intelligent man who will not disobey his party decision, but the ANC must be warned that there are lots of people who will not vote because of this decision. Many people came to the ANC because of him,” Simphiwe said, noting that he was speaking in his personal capacity as the family had not met. Parties were yesterday frantically trying to reach consensus on the urgent debate on the motion of no confidence in Zuma. The EFF warned it could still go to court to force Speaker Baleka Mbete to move their motion before the end of the week and also asked the ruling party to allow its motion, scheduled for February 22, to be brought forward to either tomorrow or Friday. This could be resolved at this morning’s urgent meeting of chief whips of all parties called by ANC chief whip Jackson Mthembu. The meeting of the chief whips will be followed by the ANC’s special caucus gathering in Parliament where sources said Mthembu would give ANC MPs marching orders on how to vote. One MP, who is also an NEC member, said that while the ANC was opposed to removing its leader with the assistance of the opposition in principle, they were left with no choice. “The reason we have been repeatedly rejecting the motions against the president (Zuma) by the opposition was not because we were not aware of the issues raised about him we have been viewing ourselves as capable of dealing with our own challenges. “If we cannot convince the opposition to allow us to file our own motion by withdrawing, we will be forced to use the avenues available to us,” said the MP. Another party MP said they were prepared repeat what they did when 25 of them voted with the opposition in November last year. “I think we need to vote for any motion that deals with the removal of the president irrespective who has tabled it. Look, the EFF will claim victory for this, but the outcome is the same if we vote with them,” said the MP. The Thabo Mbeki Foundation said Zuma’s recall was long overdue. “This was because, among others, he faces the possibility of prosecution for alleged criminal offences and is directly associated with negative developments such as the alleged corruption of various state bodies, ie state-owned enterprises, the National Prosecuting Authority, state capture and serious economic mismanagement,” the organisation said. “It has been obvious for many years that the interests of our country would be best served if indeed Mr Zuma ceased to be president of the Republic,” the foundation added, noting that “as a disciplined and loyal cadre of the ANC and out of respect for the constitution of the country, Mr Zuma must communicate with the Speaker of the House of Assembly to tender his resignation as the President of the 
Republic”. The National Director of Public Prosecutions Shaun Abrahams also announced yesterday that he had given prosecutors until Friday next week to recommend to him whether or not to reinstate corruption charges against Zuma Abrahams denied buckling under pressure and political influence, saying the timing of the announcement had nothing to do with what happened in the ruling party. NPA spokesman Luvuyo Mfaku said Abrahams had said last November he wanted to finalise the matter by the end of February. See Pages 2, 4 and 9