Mashatile, also ANC treasure-general and party leader in the province, broke the news during a community meeting at the Sports Ground in Soshanguve Block X. Mashatile said the three townships - referred to as Mawiga - were inherited by Gauteng from the North West provincial government. For years, the houses in the areas were managed by North West Housing Corporation, an entity of the government of that province. Mashatile said R24million had been paid to the North West government to release the title deeds to their rightful owners. He said the settlement was reached following a meeting with North West Premier Supra Mahumapelo. Mashatile said Gauteng proposed that the housing parastatal must fall under Gauteng. “I am happy to announce that the problem has been resolved. At least 12000 people who have been living in those houses will receive their title deeds. We know that if people have title deeds, they have a sense of ownership,” he said. He said that, all in all, the government would deliver 19000 title deeds by the end of this financial year. There were other problems raised with respect to shoddy construction of RDP houses, he said. “Residents complained that some newly-built houses had cracks and their foundations were not solid.” He said the government had undertaken to assist the Soshanguve residents whose asbestos-roofed houses were destroyed by  storms. The project of building houses in Kanana informal settlement in Hammanskraal was in the planning stage, he said. Mashatile was with MECs who accompanied Premier David Makhura to the community meeting, held after the State of the Province Address at the Gauteng Legislature earlier in the day. Makhura said the purpose of the visit was to give feedback on grievances aired by residents during the government’s outreach programme, Ntirisano. He told hundreds of people that the main focus of government would be on growing the Gauteng economy, housing and creating jobs. Makhura said it was critical for young people to get employment so they don’t indulge in drugs. In the legislature, Makhura had said: “There are already clear signs that a new dawn is upon us, thus instilling renewed confidence in South Africa’s economy.  All key players in the economy, including labour, business and consumers are willing to work together under the leadership of President (Cyril) Ramaphosa to get South Africa working so that we can get our economy to work for all our people.” Makhura said Gauteng was taking the lead in addressing youth unemployment and youth 
development. “It is for this reason that we introduced this large scale and massive programme, Tshepo 1 Million, as an intervention to open opportunities with regards to demand-led skills development, job placement and entrepreneurship for the youth of Gauteng. This ground-breaking partnership between the Gauteng provincial government, Harambee Youth Employment Accelerator, and more than 40 major private sector corporations is a living example of a social compact,” he said. Makhura said that since 2015, nearly 460000 young people have benefited from the Tshepo 500 000 flagship programme. “This programme has now been upgraded and rebooted into Tshepo 1 Million so that we can change the lives of many more young people in our province and give them hope. “The call made by President Ramaphosa to place the unemployed youth in paid internships in companies across the economy will inject momentum to the work we are already doing on Tshepo 1 Million. We can get more companies to lend a hand and give our youth a chance,” he said.