The nation fumed at Mnangagwa’s “unfortunate remarks” contending Mugabe was a “monster”, who ruined the future for millions of the young generation and crippled the country’s then thriving economy. Mnangagwa defended Mugabe of any wrongdoing in a recent interview with Russian news agency (Sputnik) accusing the Generation Forty, commonly known in Zimbabwe as the (G40) cabal, of propping ambitious Grace Mugabe to usurp Mugabe’s executive powers, taking advantage of his advanced age. In an interview, Mnangagwa said: “No, the (former) president (Robert Mugabe) never made any mistakes; there was a small cabal of individuals in the relationship around the (former) first lady (Grace Mugabe). “Because the (former) president (Mugabe) is now quite advanced in age, they took advantage of his age, and we were having persons, who were making executive decisions, which is against the constitution of the country,” Mnangagwa said. But the utterances stirred the hornets’ nest as Zimbabweans from across the political divide demanded that Mnangagwa immediately apologise. Togarepi-Nelson Macharaga, of Mbare township in Harare, said: “You (Mnangagwa) can’t claim Mugabe never did anything wrong considering millions of people he (Mugabe) forced out of the country due to ruinous economic policies.” Joseph Chinembiri , of Avondale, Harare, said: “I thought Mnangagwa would be a better leader, but now, I’m scared of him. “As such, I’m not going to vote for him in the forthcoming elections unless he apologises.” Melusi Ncube, of Tshabalala, Bulawayo, said: “Mugabe was behind the  disappearance of journalist Itai Dzamara. “Mugabe presided over the violent land-grabs, turning the country from the breadbasket of Africa to a begging bowl.” Sizani Ndebele, of Mzilikazi township, Bulawayo, said: “Mugabe presided over the Gukurahundi (massacres) that claimed more than 20000 lives. Mnangagwa’s utterances are reckless and most unfortunate.” However, Mnangagwa argued in the interview saying: “Our people (Zimbabweans) reacted to people (G40 and Grace Mugabe) usurping power, which is not given to them by the constitution, so this was corrected by the masses of Zimbabwe. “Our people had spoken;they wanted change. “So our president responded to that call and he stepped down, then the people, the ruling party Zanu-PF, nominated me to lead them, and later on, we went to congress, where I was elected the president of the party,” Mnangagwa said. He also told the Russian news agency that the political environment in the country was conducive for a free and fair election before inviting international observers including the SADC, the AU and the EU including Russia, to come and monitor the election.