This was emphasised by leaders of the Hlanganani Forum, an organisation which represents 28 villages around the western boundary of the KNP’s Xanatseni region, which is in the northern part of the park. Xanatseni stretches over 530000 hectares of the park, and is part of the 3.3 million-hectare Great Limpopo Transfrontier Park, which includes the Gonarezhou National Park in Zimbabwe and the Limpopo National Park in Mozambique. Tribes in western Xanatseni were brutally forced off their ancestral land following the draconian enactment of the Natives Land Act No 27 of 1913, which confined indigenous people to only 7% of the national arable land. The land on the KNP is currently owned by South African National Parks (SANParks), a state-owned company which is the custodian of natural assets and in turn works with neighbouring communities to drive nature conservation. It’s this nature conservation drive that Hlanganani wants to ramp up with SANParks through the use of locals to fight poaching and protecting the environment. David Mapogo, the chairperson of Hlanganani, said the community was blessed to have access to a “gold mine” which locals should conserve. The Hlanganani Forum was established in 1993 to try to stop wild animals decimating cattle in the villages. Through its engagements with SANParks to manage this decimation since the dawn of democracy in 1994, community members within Hlanganani have begun playing an active role in the conservation of what they believe to be the natural heritage that was violently taken from them. Tribes within Hlanganani have received their land back through the Restitution of Land Rights Act No 22 of 1994, including the Makuleke Traditional Community, which received 26500 hectares. Mapogo said they want to assist in preserving the environment and wildlife on its land for their grandchildren to marvel at as well as boosting tourism in the region, where the community would accrue socio-economic benefits. Mapogo was proud that the KNP’s first female regional ranger, 40-year-old Tinyiko Golela, was from Makuleke, where Golela is responsible for the marshalling of 150 law enforcement staff members to guard over 530000 hectares of Xanatseni at poaching hotspots. “We are proud of Tinyiko because she came through our ranks, where we made sure that locals, especially women, play a critical role in conserving our heritage,” Mapogo enthused. Maano Chabalala, a woman who hails from Makuleke, said she was proud of
the science labs donated by SANParks to high schools in her village, saying the labs would produce more success stories such as Golela. SANParks spokesperson Ike Phaahla acknowledged that more needed to be done by the government to foster sustainable programmes with communities in order to reverse what he called the historically adversarial relationship between communities and state-owned parks. In this regard, Phaahla said, Department of Environmental Affairs Minister Edna Molewa had announced that 1346 environmental monitors would be deployed at poaching hotspots nationally, the majority of whom would be sourced from communities surrounding national parks. -Khaya Koko