Gigaba’s office threw an open invitation to South Africans to make their voices heard under the #BudgetTips2018, and the Pretoria News last week took to the streets to talk to them to hear what they had to say. Lehlogonolo Lewane is a waste collector and was at Tshwane House, marching for jobs. Said the 29-year-old: “Since I am here asking that the municipality hire us permanently, I would like the minister of finance to emphasise decent job creation.” Sibusiso Timba, 26, from Soshanguve sells bottled water in the CBD, and all he wants is for Gigaba to allocate funds to support street vendors like himself, because they were also part of the country’s economy. Education was on top of mind for 25-year-old Sesi Mokoena from Tembisa. “I want to see him allocate funds towards free tertiary education. This will assist the poor so that they too can access an education that can change their lives.” Sunnyside health insurance and medical aid cover promoter Zethu Mguni sat under the shade of Tshwane House walkway as she does every day. She wants the country to invest in the creation of decent full-time employment for young people. “”Young people need stability in their lives,” the 27-year-old said. Winnie Swati, 23, from Atteridgeville also promotes life insurance and medical aid cover. She said: “I would be pleased if the Budget speech talked about creating permanent employment and paid for the fees of all the young people who still wanted to attain tertiary education.” Street vendor Tebogo Mkhomazi from Hammanskraal had high hopes he will one day engage in his true passion - making music. He said: “I hustle every day, but have no means to move towards what I really want to do. “I have all the equipment I need and would appreciate if people in arts received financial support to achieve their dreams and independence,” said the 24-year-old. Bringing the issue of education to the fore again was 23-year-old Mathapelo Molepo from Mabopane, who said: “All I want is free education and full-time jobs for graduates with formal qualifications.” But if Gigaba focused on the allocation of land and funds for RDP houses that would talk to the masses, Collen Molepo from Mamelodi added. Young people in townships did not have enough land and lived in back rooms at their parents’ homes and that took them nowhere fast, he said. Job creation came up again when Nthabiseng Mathibela had her say. The 25-year-old from Kwa-Mhlanga said she was in Pretoria to submit an application for employment and wanted job creation to be prioritised. “I also want Sassa (SA Social Security Agency) grants to be given a decent increase such as R50 instead of R10 every year. R10 doesn’t buy anything anymore.” Tshwane North College student Nompumelelo Ramorulane, 21, from Hammanskraal said Treasury had to prioritise free tertiary education, because education was costly. She said it would be lovely to live in a country where young people did not stress about registration fees every year. The department said Gigaba would share his views on funding of free education for students in tertiary institutions; how South Africa can achieve inclusive economic growth; how government can use its resources to ensure efficiencies; and how it, civil society, unions and business can work together to achieve the country's economic objectives.