The readers always come first, as seen by a proud history of 120 years of reporting the news, providing thought leadership, and engaging with the community - from competitions for readers to social upliftment projects. The relationship isn’t one way. Readers need the newspaper and the newspaper needs the readers, who should feel free to take on the editor about what they like and dislike in the paper in a changing world. Here are two examples that show not just this, but also perhaps changing public norms of what constitutes news and indeed good taste.  C Clifford of East Lynne wrote in June 1975, when the News was under editor Andrew Drysdale: Sir, I am becoming more and more disappointed with the reporting and advertising appearing in your newspaper. In the short space of one year I have seen the moral standard go down, down and further down. One is almost afraid to read your newspaper for fear that swear words and filthy pictures appear. Children have to be protected by tearing out offensive portions before they are allowed to be read. You have much liberty in reporting: please do not allow your liberty to become a licence. In addition to many other undesirable things appearing in the various editions (including that disgusting advertisement from Burmeisters from time to time) and wrongful suggestions via ‘By George’ that ministers of the Gospel of Jesus Christ are in favour of Sunday cinema provided they can sell popcorn in the vestibule, quite a campaign is being conducted. I wish to object most strongly to staffer Alan Anderson’s report ‘How I came 546th by No 591.’ What is he trying to prove by using the bad language he did? I assure you it did not enhance one iota what otherwise was a very interesting account of the Comrades Marathon. What is the type of objective when this type of reporting is permitted? Please try to stop this wrong. You could be such a wonderful source of good.  Three years before, NCR Haarhoff had taken the editor, Tertius Myburgh, to task for the coverage of one trial over another: Sir, I am appalled by your editorial policy in so far as it gives massive coverage to some unimportant but sensational items when there are vastly more important events that deserve notice. Take the Vontsteen case. What justification is there for continually publishing lengthy reports on every development under huge screaming headlines? Your probable retort will be the public is interested and you can prove it by quoting circulation figures. Well, what a way to run a newspaper. Why not have a daily page devoted entirely to sex scandals? A responsible newspaper should reserve banner headlines and massive front page reports for important matters. Murder cases that have become sensational solely through the efforts of the newspapers have no place on the front page. If an example is needed of your lack of judgment, compare the coverage given the Vontsteen case with that given the Timol inquest. I know you know the answer, I just wish you would forget your pocket and remember your principles.  Myburgh responded: Newspapers report the news of the day that is made by the society of today in which they and their readers live. That news reflects society itself, its interests and its activities, whether they be grave or gay, serious or trivial, praiseworthy of sordid. This is still valid, where the definition of what is acceptable or newsworthy is far different to what it was in the mid-70s, the fact is readers have always felt able to air their grievances and no editor has shied away from publishing the letter. However embarrassing or true the complaints, it’s all part and parcel of a community which takes talking to itself seriously.  Current editor Valerie Boje recalls a time when there were so many letters, there was a monthly competition for the best ones. She said the number of letters had declined in recent years, something she ascribes to changes in technology and how people access news online, as well as the rise in talk radio - where listeners phone in with their opinions. However, the Pretoria News does receive comments about and on its news selection and, she said, “readers certainly let us know if they are unhappy about something, such as a mistake or a particularly grim story”. They will comment on news and politics, from the length of Oscar Pistorius’s jail sentence to whether President Jacob Zuma should step down. The Pretoria News welcomes readers’ views which can be sent to pta.letters@inl.co.za