The drug problem in particular is so rife that the city is widely considered to be the nyaope capital of South Africa. The cheap, yet lethal, cocktail of rat poison, dagga, heroin and antiretroviral medication - among other ingredients - is believed to have first appeared around 2007 in Soshanguve, Atteridgeville 
and Mamelodi. Addressing the National Press Club last week, mayor Solly Msimanga said the City was concerned about the scourge of drugs on the community - it was leaving people unproductive, pushing them further into poverty or driving them deeper into drug-related crimes and other illegal activities. Msimanga said that when his DA-
led administration took office in 2016, it had done  so knowing the City needed a comprehensive focus and response to the drug problem. An Anti-Drug Unit was established within the Tshwane metro police 
department with the sole purpose of fighting and eliminating drug abuse. Msimanga also spoke about the  Community-Orientated Substance Use Programme operating in various areas across the city, with another earmarked for the notorious Brown Street, commonly known as home to drug users and predominantly unemployed, homeless young men. Then there is the 24-hour call centre, Hopeline, which takes calls and refers callers to places where they can get assistance. In emergency cases, it provides a basic transport service, accommodation, food and blankets. After these and other interventions, the City held a multidisciplinary raid in Pretoria West to root out drugs and unruly elements. This is in addition to other state-conceived or privately funded initiatives to deal with the scourge, not only in Tshwane but countrywide. As proved in New York City, implementing the so-called “broken windows” theory of dealing with the drug problem will help resolve several other societal problems. In terms of the theory, maintaining and monitoring urban environments to prevent petty crimes such as vandalism, public drinking and turnstile-jumping helps create an atmosphere of order and lawfulness, thereby preventing more serious crimes. In 1992, the New York Times reported that Bryant Park in the heart of the city and adjacent to the New York Public Library was an open-air drug market, the Grand Central Terminal a gigantic flophouse and the Port Authority Bus Terminal a grim gauntlet for passengers dodging beggars, drunks, thieves and destitute drug addicts. But New York City’s astonishing crime drop in the 1990s had much to do with mayor Rudolph Giuliani and police commissioner William Bratton’s broken windows approach. There were nonetheless critics who argued the theory led to harassment and criminalised the poor, constituted cultural imperialism and amounted to overzealous zero tolerance. Moreover, they argued, the crime drop had nothing to do with broken windows but was the result of changes in the economy or other broad social trends. According to the New York Times, political rivals also used the arguments to have a go at the administration and score cheap points. However, the fact remained that dealing with offences considered to be minor in the metro ultimately led to a drop in major crimes. As Msimanga said, drug lords and pedlars were feeling the heat. Ska ba hemisa, ska ba forgiva, ska ba fa chance (Don’t let them breathe, don’t forgive them and don’t give them a chance). *  Mudzuli is the assistant editor of Pretoria News. He writes in his personal capacity.