The cabinet reshuffle has been in the making for several weeks now after the ANC moved to axe former president Jacob Zuma. Some of the ministers linked to the Guptas looked despondent in Parliament yesterday when Ramaphosa was sworn in. Ramaphosa has not indicated when he will announce his new cabinet, but it is expected he will do so before the end of the weekend. ANC leaders would also not be drawn on the date the new cabinet will be announced. In a list that was circulating on social media, with official parliamentary letterheads, it appears Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba will be fired and a new minister will deliver the Budget on Wednesday. It is speculated former finance minister Pravin Gordhan will return to the National Treasury. Gigaba was appointed in March last year after a dead-of-night cabinet reshuffle by Zuma when he axed Gordhan. Gordhan has been key in the investigations into state capture in Parliament as he is a member of the portfolio committee on public enterprises probing it. Ramaphosa’s move on the cabinet reshuffle will come a few days before the Budget, and most of the work is done there. Mineral Resources Minister Mosebenzi Zwane and Social Development Minister Bathabile Dlamini have been earmarked for the axing in the cabinet reshuffle. Zwane has been accused of being linked to the Guptas with calls for him to be arrested over the Estina dairy farm after the Hawks pounced on the Guptas and their associates this week. Dlamini has come under fire for the social grants debacle with the South African Social Security Agency asking the Constitutional Court to extend the contract with Cash Paymaster Services for another six months. Dlamini was accused of engineering the crisis last year forcing Black Sash to take her to court. ANC chief whip Jackson Mthembu has not said when Ramaphosa will appoint his cabinet. The ANC has also not said who will become the deputy president of the country. ANC deputy president David Mabuza is still the premier of Mpumalanga and was busy finalising the transition period until the end of March. He is also not an ANC MP, and will need to be sworn in before he becomes an MP. The election of Ramaphosa came as opposition parties also warned him to act against state capture and ministers implicated in it.