Ntsweng was among those who tried to win a place at this year’s Valentine’s Day Evening of Love music extravaganza, scheduled for Time Square Sun Arena at Menlyn Maine on Wednesday. The 31-year-old from Limpopo, who now stays in Arcadia, had everyone dancing to his song, titled Lepotjotjo. His performance was so good that judges asked if he could sing a second song. He then did a rendition of the Marvin Gaye classic, Sexual Healing, and that made people get to their feet. Speaking to the Pretoria News, Ntsweng said the performance was all about giving love to the people, especially during the month of love. “You give people love and you get it back; that is what music is all about and that is what I just did at the auditions.” His stage name, Magatsela More, came about because every time he sang, people always wanted more. He said, however, that he could not explain why the judges wanted him to sing another song: “It could mean that either the song I sang was not good enough or it was so good that they wanted to hear what more I could offer, but I cannot tell if the judges’ call for more was a good one or not." The auditions formed part of the Evening of Love competition, which is to be held before the main event on Wednesday. Muthaland Entertainment’s Sipho Nyathela said the event had been held each year for the past six years and established artists always performed. However, this year they felt that they needed to open their doors and give an opportunity to future artists to perform. “This competition is also influenced by the excitement we received from upcoming artists when we introduced the event, as they wanted to perform for free. We decided to give them a chance and a prize,” he said. Winners will be notified ahead of the event, and they stand a chance to be included in the line-up. They can also win a R10 000 cash prize. The highly anticipated event includes a night of music by the 2016 Idols SA runner-up, Thami Shobede, Akanamali hitmaker Samthing Soweto, Vusi Nova, Ntando, Kelly Khumalo and LaSauce, among others. The host will be Idols judge and radio personality Somizi Mhlongo. Readers of the Pretoria News stand a chance to win tickets to the event. SMS PTA NEWS (SPACE) EVOL18 followed by your name, surname and e-mail address to 43637 to enter. Terms and conditions apply. SMSes cost R1.50.