The DA’s federal executive okayed moves by some of the party’s disgruntled councillors to remove De Lille but the councillors are divided on the issue and would have required the votes of the ANC to have her axed. In response, De Lille slammed the machinations from within her own party, saying that it was “a serious mockery of the values that the DA purports to stand for, which are fairness, freedom and opportunity”. De Lille said the allegations remain untested, and thus any attempt to remove her based on them was baseless, and against the party’s processes. “It seems that every other day, there is another manoeuvre to undermine these processes and get rid of me before testing the allegations against me and giving me a fair chance to respond to those allegations. "It begs the question just how much confidence the DA has in their charges against me,” said De Lille. Western Cape DA leader Bonginkosi Madikizela told Independent Media that the two investigations under way, the Bowman’s investigation and political investigation with the party’s federal executive, were “a drop in the ocean” compared to what had triggered the moves to have De Lille removed. De Lille has been implicated in a scandal over the covering-up of tender irregularities within the City of Cape Town’s transport directorate for which its head Melissa Whitehead has been suspended. The scandal had also forced the resignation of City Manager Achmat Ebrahim. Madikizela said De Lille’s caucus took the decision as they were angry with her for going against a decision “collectively undertaken” to oppose the drought levy. Late last year De Lille’s administration tabled a proposal in council for a drought levy on rates bills, based on property values. Madikizela also said the DA caucus may call for a special meeting to decide on the motion, rather than have it debated before an open council meeting. During the meeting, De Lille said she was notified via a WhatsApp message that there was a memo circulating in the chamber asking councillors to sign a request for a “special sitting” within 10 days. ANC councillor Charlotte Heynes announced to council that her party was withdrawing its motion, citing that it would not allow the DA to hijack its motion of no confidence. The ANC said the DA must take collective responsibility over the water crisis and corruption in the city and not punish just one person. It would also ask that national government place the City of Cape Town under administration for failing to deliver on its constitutional obligations. Madikizela hit back in a statement accusing the ANC of playing “petty politics”. He said the ANC was well versed with the reasons behind the DA’s motion of no confidence and that it was not necessary for them to withdraw their motion.