A rose has been specifically designed in his memory and a limited number of seeds are available for the public to buy, just in time for the most romantic day of the year. This might be the ultimate symbolic gesture as you can now watch your love grow from strength to strength by growing the plant dedicated to the country’s most famous statesman. Independent Media got a first-hand glimpse of the beautiful orange vermilion semi-double hybrid at the launch, which was held at the Nelson Mandela Foundation in Johannesburg yesterday. The event was so jovial that it had Archbishop Desmond Tutu bringing out his best dance moves as he swayed to the sounds of Sibongile Khumalo featuring the Imilonji kaNtu Choral Society. Others who were in attendance included Gauteng Premier David Makhura, who also used the opportunity to apologise again for the Life Esidimeni tragedy, which resulted in the deaths of 144 psychiatric patients. “I will say as premier that I can’t pass the buck,” he told the gathering. “If something goes wrong in Gauteng, I must take responsibility,” he added. He said that by doing so, he would be honouring Mandela’s legacy. Makhura added that the flowers which were being launched represented Madiba, as he too stood for love. The Mandela Rose was the brainchild of the foundation as well as legendary horticulturist and garden guru Keith Kirsten and was bred by Ludwig Taschner. Kirsten said the idea to name a rose in Mandela’s name was hatched back in 2000 and that he was thrilled that it was finally coming to fruition. He said he hoped it would soon be grown in gardens and public areas around the country so that people from all walks of life could remember the beauty that the former president embodied. Meanwhile, the president of the South African Nursery Association, Tanya Visser, said there were about 200 of the rose plants available at the Lifestyle Garden centre and other local retail outlets. She added that there were many growers around the country so that many more plants would be available soon.