While there would be no operations today and at the weekend, work has been scheduled to resume on Monday, authorities said. The road was closed near Hennops River between 9am and 4pm near while operations took place. Traffic was disrupted, much to the frustration of motorists who had to use alternative routes. The Gauteng Department of Roads and Transport launched the R150 million upgrade last year. “The R511 links Gauteng with the North West and serves as a major inter-provincial route from Midrand towards the neighbouring province,” said MEC for Roads and Transport Dr Ismail Vadi. He said the road also served as a collector and distributor of traffic for rural areas and towns. Vadi said a section of the road was rehabilitated some years ago and the current project would upgrade the remaining 12km of the network linking it to the neighbouring province. The 18-month project would see the construction of bus bays at selected intersections in support of public transport and passenger convenience. Vadi said the road improvements would also serve to stimulate economic activities and trigger economic development between Gauteng and the North West. The department said affected wards along the route would be given preference when it came to subcontracting and the recruitment of labour with the selection focusing on women, youth and people living with disabilities. Furthermore, the road project is envisioned to provide skills development opportunities, training and economic empowerment to BEEs and SMMEs, as well as improve linkages between various economic nodes and development corridors. The first phase of the development was the construction of two gigantic pedestrian bridges crossing the R511. The remainder of the project entails the resurfacing of the Gauteng section of the road and construction of edge beams. There will also be reinstatement of road markings and traffic signs, replacement of or repair of damaged guardrails, and cleaning road reserve and cutting of overgrown grass. The project will also see the cleaning and repairing of drainage structures and constructing of new drainage structures. The infamous road has been somewhat of  a death trap. In January, a 3-year-old girl was killed and four others sustained moderate injuries after the vehicle they were travelling in rolled on the corners of the R511 and M26. In 2016, taxi drivers blockaded the road in protest against the killing of their colleagues after industry violence broke out in Diepsloot. They claimed that three drivers were shot and killed, and demanded protection from the department.