Pretoria - Brace yourself South Africa, Lady in Red hitmaker Chris de Burgh is geared up to light-up Tshwane at the Sun International’s Times Square with love and lots of great music. The Pretoria News offers you the opportunity to win yourself and your partner tickets to be mesmerised by the 65-year-old living legend on March 2. To win you and your partners these precious tickets, simply read this article till the end and follow the instructions below. Lucky winners would witness the internationally renowned British-Irish singer-songwriter and instrumentalist as he was expected to grace the country again since 2016. He will be performing songs from his A Better World album tour. De Burgh sought to deliver one of his eye-catching art rock performances to demonstrate why his albums reached platinum over a three decades long career. Songs like Man on the line, High on Emotion, Into the Light and Lady in Red made him a household name in South Africa and across the globe. The son of a British diplomat, Colonel Charles Davison, and Irish Secretary, Maeve Emily, began performing for guests at his grandfather's hotel in the 1960s. His family had settled at the hotel after it was converted from a twelfth century castle to a destination for guest when they heard him sing. De Burgh not only excelled as a singer and songwriter. He held a Masters of Arts Degree in French, English and History. His academic history explained why music critics applauded his self-written lyrics for being well thought through and articulate enough to tug at the heartstrings of romantics and music-lovers. A Better World was an album that fused many styles, tempos and instruments. The album’s show was expected to showcase stellar rock anthems and solo performances with band or orchestral ensemble pieces. Fans would witness live fusion of rock and pop with regional flavour from the Caribbean to Celtic. Catch De Burgh at Time Square at the Sun Arena on on March 2. Tickets were priced between R460 and R800 per person at www.bigconcerts.co.za To enter SMS PTA NEWS (SPACE) ChrisdeBurgh followed by your name and surname and email address to 43637. Terms and conditions apply, sms cost R1.50 Please note that only winners will be contacted.  james.mahlokwane@inl.co.za  Pretoria News