James Mahlokwane The Bronkhorstspruit Magistrate's Court canned the application to see a white man accused or raping his parent's black domestic worker sent to Weskoppies Psychiatrist Hospital for a 30 day psychiatric observation after the court found the defence's application to be baseless. The accused was arrested last year October for allegedly damaging the woman's cellphone, holding her against her will and then forcing her to perform oral sex with two dogs before making her have intercourse with the pets. The demonstrating crowd that was allowed into the courtroom was rubbed up the wrong way a couple of times during the days long proceedings on Thursday. Their anger and frustrations could be heard from whispers when psychiatrist Masase Beke told the court that the accused told him during a preliminary assessment that he had had sex with the woman but he did not know how the dogs knew how to sleep with the woman. She said the accused told her the dogs would know the answer to that. France Tsatsi made it clear he was not moved nor convinced by 'baseless' arguments made by the defence's Hleketani Maluleke who tried her best to get the application approved. The application was made by the accused's parents who wanted their son to be sent to the Pretoria hospital for professionals to establish if he was mentally ill. However, prosecutor Solly Leballo said the National Prosecuting Authority was not having it and opposed the application as it sought to excuse the accused rapist from facing consequences for his alleged conduct. The Riamar Park suspect started getting frustrated while seated on the bench as Magistrate Tsatsi criticised the defence's pro observation argument. Magistrate Ignatius du Preez had already told the accused that he faced a possible life sentence should he be found guilty during the criminal case. The state felt that a psychiatric observation would present the accused with a opportunity to fake insanity and subsequently avoid prosecution. However, with the application canned, the accused could be expected back in court in March to face 10 counts including rape, sexual assault, kidnapping and malicious damage to property. The state argued that sending the accused for observation would not only prove costly to the state but would encourage the gathering inside the court to seek mental illness assessments every time they faced prosecution. The state said the psychiatric and investigating officer, Moses Mabena, both dealt with the accused but could not establish any mental illness. Dr. Beke said although she did not perform a full assessment on the accused, she could only establish that he was intellectually disabled and went to a special needs school but could not say if intellectual disability meant a person could not face prosecution. Tsatsi said he would understand if Maluleke had argued that she could not communicate with her client because he was acting abnormally but in this case the accused was able to communicate with her, the investigating officer and psychiatrist told all of them the same things. Tsatsi was also not convinced because the accused had a drivers licence and knew fine details about his previous legal troubles such as his arrest for driving under the influence of alcohol. Tsatsi said the defence could not base this in its argument and, in fact, it was the accused's father who made the application for observation in an attempt to discover if something was wrong with his son.