The speakers, from different fields, addressed them at Mahlasedi Masana Primary School in Mamelodi on Friday, courtesy of a non-profit-organisation, Heirs of the World. After observing that most township pupils had no idea of what they want to do after finishing school, Heirs of the World saw it fit to expose them  to unlimited opportunities in the form of motivational talks and hosting established speakers in the fields of medicine, the arts and law. “We chose to got to the township to motivate the learners, because we realised many were not clear on their future, spokesperson Richard Bwanya said “We went there to expose them to the endless and countless interesting careers they can pursue,” he added. Most learners in townships have no direction on how to become successful, he said, so they brought the likes of Nkateko Masinga to talk to them about the power of realising their goals at a young age. The learners were engaged and given clarity on matters regarding the tough transition from primary to high school, bursaries and the different careers they could embark on. Masinga studied medicine and is an author, publisher, spoken-word artist and theatre actress. She was born and raised in Mamelodi. In her fourth year of medical school, she published her first book, The Sin In My Blackness, and in it she talked about racism, xenophobia and black consciousness. In 2016, she published her second book, A War Within The Blood, which deals with mental illness and the stigma associated with having a psychiatric condition, especially in the black community. She said standing in front of the Grade 7s reminded her of what it felt like to be young and excited about the future. “I was born and raised in Mamelodi, so it meant a lot to be standing in front of these bright young minds and telling them about the endless opportunities that are available to them. “Unlike us, they have at their fingertips information about bursaries and various careers. But we have to acknowledge that some have no idea what they want to do once they are finished with school. “We want them to fill the gap in the endless professions that we were not aware of when we were at school,” she said. Masinga told them never to give up, despite the hardships they might encounter. Another speaker was Beauty Vambe, who engaged the learners on the their rights when it came to education. Vambe holds a Diploma in Education from the University of Zimbabwe. She specialised in English and Physical Education, graduated with an LLB honours, after which she obtained an LLM degree at Unisa. Her main area of specialisation was contract law. She said she wanted them to realise there was no law restricting them from learning as much as they could. “All they must do is realise their goals. Children now have the opportunity to have countless career options. What they must do is go out there and overcome any obstacles they might face. If they fail, they must try harder the next time,” Vambe said. Heirs of the World is an organisation that seeks to eradicate poverty, as well as enrich humankind, primarily by focusing on education, with attention given to outreach programmes and promoting social entrepreneurship.