The family of murdered Bronkhorstspruit Magistrate's Court judge, Victor Mabunda, said it was difficult to look at the three men accused of murdering Mabona and they couldn't stop wondering why he was killed. The husband and father of five was shot and killed in his driveway on December 10 in what is suspected to have been an ordered hit after nothing was taken from his possession and vehicle. Mabunda's sad wife, Velaphi, stood outside the Bronkhorstspruit Magistrate's Court next to her sister, Phoebe Thlaku, who answered media questions on her behalf. Thlaku said, "The family is saddened by the incident but we do not want to rush the justice system. We want the court system to take its course. We are happy with the speedy action taken by the South African Police Service." The family said it was not easy for them to look at the suspects inside the courtroom. She said they couldn't help but ask themselves why Mabunda was murdered. "We are taking it one day at a time," she said. The faimly and their supporters believed the police were making great progress investigating the case. Tshwane Chief Prosecutor, Lupondo Matric was responsible for prosecuting the trio. The police arrested the first two suspects on February 1 and the third suspect was arrested the next day. Lupondo said the third suspect was arrested in Soweto in possession of a vehicle believed to have been used in the the convoy when Mabunda was killed. Magistrate Ignatius du Preez granted the state its request to move the case to the Pretoria Magistrate's Court in the capital city as of February 19. The three suspects were expected to plead to a murder charge in Pretoria, where they they would make an application for bail. The state was determine to oppose bail and convince the court to charge the trio with premeditated murder for a harsher sentence. ANC zonal leader Dan Mabona said the party supported the family in its journey to seek justice. Congress South Africa trade union provincial executive committee member Johannes Mokoena said he was going to mobilise members to Pretoria to support the Mabunda family. He said the justice system needed to use this case to discourage the killing of public servants such as court judges and police officers.