Grade 12 pupils from religious schools across Pretoria who did exceptionally well in their languages were congratulated and encouraged to motivate their peers to celebrate languages. Speaker after speaker told them to be proud about other people's languages too. Among those honoured was 16-year-old Phelindaba High School pupil Tshepang Nkomo. She said that Sotho language defined who she was, and receiving an honour was an added glory to her crown. “It is really exciting to be honoured for something that is important and true to me my language defines me and it's my identity,” she said. The top achiever in Afrikaans was 17-year-old Shandrea Kohlo from Prosperitus Secondary School - and she said that she liked reading literature,  which made her fall in love with the language. “I’m proud to have worked this hard and be recognised for my sterling work representing my language couldn't have been better because reading also helped with me falling in love with the language,” she said. Another top achiever was Stanza Bopape High School pupil Theophilus Sisilana, 18, who said that he was proud to be Tswana and being himself was the best thing ever to happen to him. He advised people not to feel belittled when addressing others in their mother language. ATKV Centurion chairperson Sakkie Kotze said that they always honoured Afrikaans top achievers, but extended their celebration this year to celebrate all 11 official languages since it was International Mother Language Day. “We are very proud people today as we are celebrating National Mother Language Day. We decided this day was a very good opportunity to extend our project to all the other official languages in South Africa. “We congratulate them on being top achievers at their schools in their mother tongue language. “We also say to other pupils, 'Do your best to be a top achiever in your academics',” he said. The project aimed to reach out to all language groups in South Africa to say “come and respect one another by acknowledging each others’ languages and culture for unity and togetherness”, he said. The day was an opportunity for people to love others' languages. “You can't buy language it's God given; be proud of it and love it till the end of your life,” Kotze said. The day has been observed every year since February 2000 to promote linguistic and cultural diversity and multilingualism.