He told the Pretoria News he wanted a law enforcement agency to intervene with a view to root out such a tendency. “I had a meeting with the mayor (Solly Msimanga) on the matter and I suggested that we should involve a law enforcement because the responsibility to deal with the problem does not fall within the mandate of the department,” Nkomo said. He said occupants of RDP houses often sold their properties to foreigners, and that could partly be attributed to a slow pace of housing delivery. As of November last year, the City had recorded a housing backlog of at least 182000, Nkomo said. He said the City planned to deal with its backlog by providing service stands to residents who could build houses. The stands would come with a flushing toilet, water and electricity connections. Nkomo was speaking following the postponement of a public meeting to talk about housing problems in Soshanguve organised by the provincial legislature portfolio committee on human settlements. One of the meeting's agendas was to organise an inquiry aimed at resolving the housing backlog in the province. The committee had hoped to tackle other related matters such as allocation, subsidy, title deeds and the high number of protests caused by the increased demand for housing. Nkomo agreed that there had been instances in the City where protests erupted because disgruntled residents had been on a housing waiting list for too long. He was adamant that the service stands approach would assist the City to decrease its housing backlog. Nkomo said that at this stage, the City could only build fewer than 3000 houses a year despite having more than 180000 people on the waiting list. With the service stands approach, the City could give at least 7000 stands to residents each year. The City was also grappling with processing title deeds to rightful owners of RDP houses because often houses were occupied by tenants or those who bought them from beneficiaries, he said. “Most people are renting out their RDP houses and when we go to the houses we find it difficult to find the rightful owners,” Nkomo said. For the 2017/2018 financial year, the City had planned to give out at least 6000 title deeds, Nkomo said. “Last December we had already given 3078 title to residents. This is more than 50% of our target,” he said. The City will on Saturday hand over 660 title deeds in Ward 90 in Soshanguve. The inquiry by the provincial department was also scheduled to address challenges in providing title deeds to some housing applicants from the period 1996 to 2006.