Both the ANC and the SACP yesterday distanced themselves from the group that told a media briefing of anti-Zuma protests that would hit the city this morning. The City of Tshwane also said that while an application from the #ZumaMustGo campaign had been received, it was not approved. The group said it represented the ANC and SACP provincial structures and expected thousands of people to convene, occupy the Union Buildings and not leave until Zuma had stepped down. “We want everyone to stay away from work until Zuma steps down. This also includes those protecting the president; they too must join the march or stay at home until he resigns,” said the national convener of #ZumaMustGo, Hangwi Maumela. People from all nine provinces would be in the city. “We have 60 buses full of people from all over the country set to arrive in the city to support the national march,” he said. “During comrade Cyril Ramaphosa’s campaign, he promised to root out corruption and we feel he must start to do that now; he must start to exercise his power. We elected them the ANC Top Six because we trusted them. They said they were going to rescue us. “Comrade Cyril must not be ashamed or apologetic to ask Zuma to step down,” Maumela said. He said the only thing that could stop the march was Zuma stepping down by last night. “We know Zuma is not alone. There are people pushing him to do this and we also know that Zuma alone is powerless.” Maumela told of a social media post by first lady Thobeka Madiba-Zuma, in which she posted a picture of herself and Zuma saying: “It’s going to get rough, don’t fight with someone who is not fighting you” Maumela had replied: “Do not threaten us because we are going to respond to your threat and you are not going to like it. We realise we have a serious threat. I mean, how in the world do you find the president’s wife tweeting and making a serious threat? There must be an influence somewhere. “We were even saying that maybe he does not know how to write; maybe we should just copy and paste the letter comrade Thabo Mbeki used when he resigned and we can even assist him to write. “We love our movement so much that we are ready to be arrested, beaten and killed. This is our way of telling the public that they should not give up on the ANC, as we only have one enemy, and we will root out that enemy.” Maumela said that those planning to join the march were not to wear ANC T-shirts bearing Zuma’s image. However, the SACP said it had not sanctioned the media conference or the call to march today. “We further distance ourselves from the man who claims to hold a position in the SACP who took part in the press conference. The man does not represent the SACP and any of its structures. In fact, the man is not known to any structures of the SACP and therefore doesn’t have a mandate to speak on our behalf,” said SACP provincial secretary MEC Jacob Mamabolo. He added that the SACP took serious issue with individuals using the name of the organisation for their own ends and would conduct an investigation. “We strongly condemn acts of anarchy, lawlessness and rampant appetite for destruction and violence, and while we reaffirm the principled and profound decision taken by the central committee, calling on Zuma to resign or be recalled by the ANC, we believe that this matter is well within the purview of our national leadership.” ANC Youth League leader in the Greater Tshwane region Lesego Makhubela also took to social media to denounce the group. “Kindly note that these are rented thugs, criminals (and) agent provocateurs masquerading as ANC leaders and members in Tshwane region. We don’t know them or who they are. ANC Tshwane region will be guided by Luthuli House on the transition with President Zuma,” he said. However, Maumela was not bothered: “We have been expecting this, but the march will happen.” Tshwane Metro Police spokesperson Senior Superintendent Isaac Mahamba said the marchers were planning to arrive from all parts of South Africa in buses and the planned gathering point was the old Putco depot near Marabastad. Maumela had said that they would meet at Burgers Park. Mahamba said the protesters had conveyed that they would walk to the Union Buildings at 10am, via Struben Street, Nelson Mandela Drive and Madiba Street, dispersing at 2.30pm. He added that if the march went ahead, it would be regarded as illegal and dealt with accordingly.  “We will deploy officers to monitor the march and all affected streets. Some of the major routes may also be affected.”