This came after Judge Eben Jordaan last week demanded that a representative of Legal Aid South Africa explain why the report, which was commissioned last year, was not ready. The judge in the Gauteng High Court, Pretoria, yesterday indicated that it was explained to him in chambers what the delay was, and that a psychologist had now been appointed. The expert, however, needed two months to consult with the woman and to finalise the report. Both parents cannot afford to pay for their own defence and are being defended by advocates appointed and paid for by the State. The mother’s defence to the array of charges regarding the abuse and neglect of her children is that she too, was a victim of her husband’s “abusive nature”. According to her, there was nothing she could do to protect them against him. The children - aged between 3 and 16 - when their parents were arrested in 2014 are in a place of safety. They were rescued from the “house of horrors” after the police raided the double-storey house when neighbours contacted them. This was after the couple’s then 11-year-old son ran to the neighbours for help after his father had severely beaten him. The police and social services uncovered what they called “a filthy nest” with rats “as big as puppies” running around the house. It was claimed that the mother, who was dressed in skimpy clothes when the police got there, often used drugs given to her by her husband and that she did not lift a finger when her husband abused the children. The mother, 39, said she too, was her husband’s “prisoner” and he made her dress like a prostitute, while demanding sex several times a day from her. The prosecution is of the opinion that the defence is on a “fishing expedition” to try to find defence for the mother. The judge, on the other hand, earlier said he was interested to hear what a psychologist had to say about the woman. The husband denied all the charges against him, but was adamant that he did not want to take the stand to defend himself. This is while the mother, during her evidence, points all fingers at him. It is clear the couple are not on speaking terms, as they ignore each other in the dock and sit far apart. The trial was postponed to take place between May 7 and 18.