But talent alone is not enough, actor and voice-over artist Leroy Gopal told aspiring young performers at a workshop in Pretoria at the weekend. He was speaking to wannabe dancers, singers and actors who gathered at the Dance De’ Art, a dance centre in Hatfield Plaza, in the run-up to the Mzansi Arts talent showcase on Saturday. Mzanzi Arts is a platform that encourages professional advancement of talent in all areas of the performing arts by allowing rising artists to launch their careers by offering photo shoots, career guidance, training and workshops. Open auditions are held across the country, and those selected perform at the showcase in front of invited guests from educational institutions, radio and TV producers, casting agents, record labels, modelling agents and managers and producers in the performing and visual arts. Gopal’s advice was that participants would not get anything for free just because they were talented. He urged them to invest themselves in their careers. “You need to assess yourself: do you have the talent? Do you have what it takes to be an actor? Do you have the ability to capture people’s attention when the camera is rolling?” he asked. “You’ve got to have the desire and match it with the confidence needed as one cannot be shy in front of people. Giving up should not be an option “It is an advantage to go to a film school; it’s an advantage to go to an institution where you can learn acting and entertainment, but - if you can’t afford, find people that can help.” He suggested attending such events. His other advice was to use every opportunity to “showcase your talent” and to do so with no hesitation no matter how big or small the part or audience was. “Every day you’ve got to sharpen and practise your art,” he said. Gopal is a Zimbabwean-born actor, television personality and voice artist best known for his role as Thabang Ngema on the SABC3 drama series One Way, and in the local movie, Yellow Card. He spoke of challenges entertainers faced, including not finding work and dealing with rejection. “I went to 280 auditions in a year and only got one job, so don’t give up.” he urged. “You go to an audition where you will be told you are too white, too fat, too dark; they can tell you things which can leave you disheartened. 
But don’t stop, continue doing what you love.” Director of Mzansi Arts Talent showcase Weza Matomane said: “The big break into the media industry is not always the easiest journey for talented hopefuls, some end up giving up on their dreams of becoming entertainment stars.” Some of the local celebrities who lent support to the initiative included dancer Bontle Modiselle, Mi Casa band member Mo-T, comedian Jason Goliath, musician and actor Batsile Ramasodi, producer and actress Rosie Motene and actor Khotso Rampho. Aspiring actor Jermaine Papers, 22, of Joburg said the workshop was very productive and motivational. “Sometimes you feel like giving up, but after today I will keep pushing. I’m all for Mzansi Art; it is a good initiative,” Papers said.