JAMES MAHLOKWANE The Pretoria Magistrate's Court recommended that three men accused of killing a court Magistrate, Victor Mabunda, undergo thorough medical examinations for injuries they claimed to have sustained from their encounters with the police. Magistrate Adrian Bekker said he would make recommendations for the trio to be assessed as they requested through their individual legal representatives. However, the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) said it was not fazed by the move. The NPA called the request a common strategy used by numerous suspects to avoid justice. The NPA appointed its "top guns", Chief Prosecutor Matric Lupondo and Advocate Hanna Couradie, to prosecute the accused for what it deemed a serious crime. The third accused was arrested after the two suspects and initially appeared by himself at the Bronkhorstspruit Magistrate's Court. On his first appearance, he claimed he was being beaten by police officers. The NPA said the accused was acting like a desperate man who needed to escape the might of the law that was facing him. Lupondo said the accused was traced and arrested in Soweto in possession of one of the vehicles suspected to have been used in the convoy during Mabunda's murder. Yesterday, the accused instructed his defence to inform the court that he had an injury on his left hand index finger knuckle. His co accused said they also needed medical examinations for injuries sustained during their encounters with arresting officers. Mabunda’s death attracted public interest and was suspected to have been an ordered assassination. None of his possessions were taken from his vehicle when he was shot four times and killed in his driveway in Bronkhorstspruit. Family Spokesperson Erel Ngobeni said he agreed with the NPA on the view that the accused when stalling by claiming that they needed medical examinations. He said the family made peace with the passing of Mabunda but all they needed now was justice. The accused were expected back in court on March 16 to face a murder charge that could possibly be turned into premeditated murder should the NPA successfully prove its case. While the police may not speak on an ongoing investigation, it is alleged that they were still on a manhunt for two other men who were allegedly part of the convoy that killed Mabunda. The Public Servants Association of South Africa condemned the killing of Magistrate Victor Mabunda. The association’s General Manager Ivan Fredericks said, in a statement: “The PSA is dismayed that the life of a person tasked with upholding justice has to end in such a way. The union calls upon the South African Police Service (SAPS) to thoroughly investigate this case and to speedily arrest the perpetrators."