Yesterday, residents protested outside the local municipal building, turning back those who came to pay their utility bills. They were also hostile to journalists and forced a Pretoria News photographer to delete pictures he had taken. Metro police officers formed a wall in front of the entrance to keep protesters at bay yesterday after the group of about 30 people illegally occupied the municipal building on Monday. City spokesperson Selby Bokaba said the group ordered officials to vacate the offices, preventing them from serving the public. Bokaba said the municipality strongly condemned the forceful and illegal occupation of its Bronkhorstspruit offices. “The City apologises to the public for any delays, challenges and barriers during the illegal protest. “The City will monitor the situation and once it returns to normality, the services will resume in earnest." Chairperson of the SA Civic Organisation in the area Jacob Raseroka said the community was disgruntled about the failure of the City to build them RDP houses. “We have tried to speak to our local councillor and the people in the municipality but they didn’t help us. From 2005 we've been trying to engage them until we lost patience. We then decided to occupy empty land in Rethabiseng. We put up shacks as we couldn't allow our children staying in backyards." The community decided to protest outside the municipal office, because they wanted road construction and houses on the land, he said. Protest organiser Mduduzi Mhlanga said it had been 13 months since the people illegally occupied the land. The people were angry because residents living in the nearby Zithobeni had a stadium, clinic and RDP houses, built by the municipality. “We have 74 factories in Ekangala Industrial, but only nine factories are operational. There are no jobs." Protester Katlego Mashile said: “We have mines here and every time we engage with them we are told to deal with the municipality.” Local councillor Unice Moloi said the community was angry because metro police and the Red Ants had demolished their shacks without prior notice. “The metro police also burnt the corrugated-built church,” she said. She said some people were shot at by the metro police officers. “The metro police even lied telling the community I gave them the go-ahead to burn the shacks. My life is now in danger,” Moloi said. “Last year in March they demolished their shacks. I spoke to them and they stopped. This is the second time,” she said. The protesters vowed to continue protesting until the City gave them positive feedback.