The 32-year-old from Phillip Nel Park is a single mother and a proud member of the Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender (LGBT) member. Coming out as a lesbian was hard for her, but she managed to find herself. She said somehow, somewhere she faced what women went through; from abuse, rejection to depression, which is why she entered the pageant. She wanted to help women going through trials. “Through all categories, I'm somehow affected, I also lost my parents when I was a teenager; and I needed someone to count on. “As I went through each trial in my life I needed people who was not judgemental, but I had to walk through most of my troubles alone,” she said. Khumalo said when she was a teen she loved participating in pageants, but stopped when she got pregnant in matric. She felt like she was no longer a role model. “I felt like I was no longer a good example and started having low self-esteem as I got funny looks at church. This dimmed my light.” But after so many years of not being active, she entered Mrs Pretoria-Tshwane to heal, as she was going through a divorce. Entering the pageant helped her heal through helping other people. “When I entered, I was going through a divorce, and it was a great way to heal. “While I was helping other people, I was also helping myself, since we deal with women going through all sorts of abuse.” She was crowned by her 14-year-old daughter in November at Carnival City, and described the night as the best in her life. “It's such an honour to be part of this project as a divorced single mother. “I have experienced a lot of discrimination because of my sexuality, status in the society, and even appearance sometimes. “Losing my parents at a young age forced me to grow up quicker, to take care of my siblings and despite many of the hardship I have been through, I am proud to say I have been inspired to grow and be the strong woman I am today.” Khumalo said she entered the pageant because it was not an ordinary pageant. The pageant raises funds for RoleModels Foundation projects. “It intervenes in poor communities throughout South Africa, specifically targeting the most vulnerable groups, which are pre-school children, the youth, abused women and children or single mothers and senior citizens,” said Khumalo. During her tenure, she said she would visit schools and disadvantaged areas, as she considered herself to be a humanitarian. In motivating people who were scared to come to terms with their sexuality she said: “You will be rejected at one point, but stay who you are. “There will be genuine people, who will accept you for who you are. “Educate those you care for, to make them understand who you are, and never disrespect them for not understanding. Be proud and bold within your private space before you come out because they are going to judge you.”