Yesterday, Zuma’s fate appeared all but sealed after Ramaphosa told ANC MPs that the beleaguered president had agreed to step down, but wanted some issues to be “cleared” out before handing in his resignation. Ramaphosa has cleared his diary for the weekend to deal with Zuma’s departure. And in turn, Zuma will no longer attend the Ubuntu Awards tomorrow after they were called off, marking what appeared to be the end of his stay in office. Ramaphosa’s behind-closed-doors meeting with ANC MPs came as pressure continued to mount on Zuma to step down, with opposition parties planning a national shutdown, and also demanding a motion of no confidence in Parliament to oust the former ANC president on Tuesday. Independent Media spoke to at least seven MPs that attended the caucus meeting in Cape Town and a source in the Presidency regarding Zuma’s future. They painted a picture of a president winding down his business in preparation for departure in the next few days. The MPs said Ramaphosa was keen to wrap up the discussions with Zuma by Sunday. An ANC MP, speaking on condition of anonymity, said Ramaphosa did not divulge the outstanding matters that Zuma wanted finality on. “Ramaphosa said President Jacob Zuma was willing to resign but wanted certain things to be cleared before he could do so. The president (Ramaphosa) did not reveal those things that needed to be cleared,” he said. “The president came to address and just confirmed the events which were detailed by the treasurer-general, Paul Mashatile, in the tape,” he added. In the tape that emerged on Wednesday night, Mashatile told delegates at the Mining Indaba in Cape Town that they wanted Zuma gone. He confirmed that Zuma had refused to relinquish power in the meeting they, as the ANC's Top Six leaders, held with him last Sunday night, saying he was going nowhere. This, Mashatile said, prompted them to resolve that Zuma should be recalled and the State of the National Address, scheduled for yesterday, be cancelled. The postponed ANC special national executive committee meeting on Wednesday, which came after a meeting between Zuma and Ramaphosa, was going to call for the president to step down. “Now people in the country, and maybe all over the world, want to know if we have been talking about the word we just coined it ‘managing the transition’ and, interestingly. on Sunday evening President Zuma says to us ‘what do you guys mean by transition?’ He said this is a strange word that you guys have just coined. What is this thing you are talking about called transition? And we said to him it’s handing over power to Cyril, but we are managing that,” said Mashatile. Another ANC MP said Ramaphosa did not want to cut any deal with Zuma on his legal troubles, saying he did not have the authority to grant Zuma immunity from prosecution on the 783 charges of corruption as it would be illegal. “Cyril told us he is not in the business of granting immunity from prosecution. He is not above the law, and has no authority to do so,” said the MP. Other ANC MPs said Ramaphosa told them that he and Zuma were finding each other and he (Zuma) wished that the departure would be handled in such a way that he was not humiliated. “It won’t help to push things and do things in a clumsy way, because things could backfire,” said the MP. A source in the Presidency also said Zuma could be gone by the weekend as he was wrapping up his business. Earlier, ANC secretary-general Ace Magashule and ANC chief whip Jackson Mthembu briefed the media in a hastily convened press conference. Magashule confirmed the discussions between Zuma and Ramaphosa, saying said there was no fixed date for the conclusion of the process. But he reiterated that the discussions would be finalised in due course. Mthembu said he would not comment on the discussions between Ramaphosa and Zuma. He did not disclose details of the caucus meeting. Ramaphosa’s address to the ANC caucus came as opposition parties wrote to National Assembly Speaker Baleka Mbete demanding a no-confidence debate in Parliament on Tuesday. They said they would no longer wait until February 22, because the ANC was refusing to fire Zuma. Parliament said yesterday it was continuing with its business despite the postponement of the State of the Nation Address.