Thousands packed The Sun Arena and sang and swayed and screamed and shouted when Kelly Khumalo, Ntando and Vusi Nova were on stage. But they were equally appreciative, singing along, clapping and begging for more when Bekezela, Samthing Soweto and little-known group 047 belted it out, at the Valentine’s Day Evening of Love celebration meant to give people a reason to come out and experience, on a mid-week night. Samthing Soweto, recently known for his hit single Akanamali, had the women swooning when he gave different variations of the reasons why one had little or nothing which was desirable. He had people agreeing that they had no money, no time, no space and no love, before making way for Kelly Khumalo. She pranced onto stage barely clad, much to the admiration of many, giving it her all as she is known too. She traversed the stage in tiny shorts and stilettos to walk the red carpet. Ntando Bangani, who has been in the music industry for a while and who specialises in love songs stole the show. He poured out his heart to the audience, getting them on their feet to jump and sing. When the dreadlocked, traditionally-attired crooner jumped into the crowds and interacted with the fans, the night was made. With mike in hand and arms open to women who wanted hugs he ran between aisles and seats and left women swooning in his wake, before introducing songs from his new album and then bowing out, and making way for Vusi Nova. But the real stars of the night were the MCs, who peppered performances both with singing of their own, jokes about other stars and expressing their appreciation of the crowds. Soapie actor Kope Makgae, also a singer of note, was first in that category and he held the arena captive with his constant jokes, dressing up and singing and then handing the reins to social media comic and now actor Moshe Ndiki. He gave people who only knew him as a sometimes playful yet serious entertainer, a real live taste of his offerings which were second only to the larger than life Somizi Mhlongo. His anticipated arrival on stage drove the arena wild, and he did not disappoint as he joked - about anything and everything, sang and danced. And then he brought on stage the JT Taylor, lead singer of Kool and the Gang of the 80s, to greet the people, but not before skindering about the “old man”, asking people to scream and shout as if they remembered and loved the group to make them feel loved. Before he welcomed Taylor, he confided in the audience - in siZulu -  explaining he had to speak in a language they did not understand so they did not know he had asked. And he got the desired result, born both of a people wanting to laugh about the request and a real appreciation and recognition from those who knew the group. And when the evening came to an end after midnight and people reluctantly went home to prepare for Thursday, all were in agreement that the evening was well worth it.