SAKHILE NDLAZI 
sakhile.ndlazi@inl.co.za The South African Air Force (SAAF) is hosting its Prestige Day parade at Air Force Base Waterkloof today, during which Air Force Base Langebaanweg was named the most prestigious unit in the SAAF. In addition to the parade the SAAF is also celebrating its 97th birthday. SAAF was established on February 1 1920. The Air Force has seen service in World War II and the Korean War. From 1966 the SAAF was involved in providing infantry support in a low intensity war in Angola, Namibia and Zimbabwe. The purpose of this parade is to celebrate and acknowledge exceptional performance by directorates, bases, squadrons and units.
It is also meant to thank all members of the air force for their dedication, loyal support as well as work performed during the previous year. The base was a hive of activity and a mass fly-past displayed the derivatives of aircraft that the SA Air force currently uses for a variety of missions in South Africa as well as Africa. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  Chief of the Air Force Lieutenant General Zimpande Msimang said despite the chronic below global accepted defence budget allocations the SAAF members are requested to not lose national priorities. Msimang praised all on parade for the level of excellence, professionalism, discipline and commitment displayed. He also paid tribute to all members that are currently deployed in peace keeping missions. He reiterated that discipline is paramount to all aspects of military and private lives. The mandate of the air force was mentioned, "Our National Defence Force remains consistently conscious of its role in a constitutional democracy and by its very nature continues to attract allies and competitors alike,” he said. Msimang assured all South Africans of the readyness and commitment of the South African Air Force towards national security and defence of the country.