The first protest action by members of Man and Boy Foundation began yesterday at the Film and Publication Board (FPB) offices in Centurion where they engaged in a sit-in protest demanding the cancellation or editing of the movie. About 15 members of the foundation snuck into the building at about 11am and demanded to speak with managers. FPB spokesperson Manala Botolo could not be reached for comment. Cultural activists claim that the movie, which focuses on homosexuality at traditional circumcision schools, was filmed in a distasteful manner and distorted activities associated with the sacred ritual. The film is about a journey of an initiate who then falls in love with his traditional nurse. The film, produced by Cait Pansegrouw of Urucu Media, is set in the Eastern Cape and touches on issues of masculinity and patriarchy. However, it was the scenes of explicit sex, vulgar language and exposure of certain aspects of the ritual that seem to have angered traditionalists who have also promised a national protests at cinemas that will screen the film tomorrow. Leaders of the Congress of Traditional Leaders of SA  (Contralesa) have started mobilising for support in a bid to gate-crash cinemas in East London and Port Elizabeth. Both cities are in the Eastern Cape where the ritual is commonly practised. Contralesa provincial chairperson Chief Mwelo Nonkonyana said they had instructed their lawyers to prepare a court interdict to block the movie and mobilised youths to disrupt cinemas. “The movie was a big no-no from start to finish and all stakeholders that we complained to failed to reply to our letters,” said Nonkonyana. Man and Boy Foundation executive director Nkululeko Nxesi stressed that they were not bothered by homosexuality depicted in the movie, but their grief was the portrayal of activities that were commonly discouraged at initiation schools. “The entire film gives a bad impression of initiation schools and it's misinforming and distorting the ritual. First, there are explicit sex scenes and it also shows people falling in love. Sex and romantic relations are not part of activities that take place in the mountain. They aren’t allowed.  There is also lots of usage of vulgar (language) and alcohol which is also frowned upon. Only uMqombothi is allowed there,” said Nxesi. Man and Boy Foundationwants the offensive scenes edited out.