They appeared in the Specialised Commercial Crimes Court in Pretoria and were released on R10000 bail each. The three had handed themselves in to the Independent Police Investigative Directorate (Ipid) earlier in the morning to be charged with corruption. Magistrate Nicca Setshogoe postponed the matter to March 12 to allow for further investigations. However, their lawyer Piet du Plessis was not impressed and questioned why the investigation had not been completed. “Given that this is a highly publicised case which has been going on since last year one would want to know why the State has not finished its investigation. It’s interesting that it now requires another month,” Du Plessis said. But Ipid spokesperson Moses Dlamini hit back, saying there was a strong case against Phahlane, who is facing at least six counts of corruption. “It’s a strong enough case; that is why people are charged and are appearing in court. If it wasn’t strong they wouldn’t be appearing in court. This is what we have always been saying that there is a strong case against the accused,” said Dlamini. Phahlane appeared relaxed and smiled at court staff while on his way to the courtroom. The State prosecution, led by Advocate Henry Nxumalo, did not oppose bail. He said that the State needed a month to finalise its investigation. On finalisation he would be ready to disclose the contents of the State’s case against the accused. The three are charged with alleged corruption and money laundering. The charges stem from alleged kickbacks the former top cop, his wife and other senior officers received for the awarding of lucrative forensic supply tenders while Phahlane headed the SAPS Forensic Division. The alleged kickbacks were in the form of vehicles supplied to the police officers - either at a discounted rate or through paying inflated prices - which were sold to Snyman. The Ipid, which is heading the investigation, alleged that police supplier Keith Keating, who owns Forensic Data Analysts, facilitated the payment for the cars for the Phahlane and his wife through a Pretoria car dealership owned by Snyman. The cars are a grey Land Rover Discovery 4, a silver Nissan Navara, a Toyota Hilux 3.0, a grey Mercedes Benz C250, a silver VW Polo, and a silver Ford Rover. Keating, whose company had allegedly received R5 billion in SAPS contracts since 2010,  confirmed knowing Snyman, but denied purchasing vehicles for Phahlane and his family from him. He said he had instead purchased a game farm and equipment from Snyman. Ipid alleges that kickbacks were given to Phahlane through the sale of discounted vehicles to himself and other police officers including his wife. Keating and the Phahlanes have been embroiled in accusations of corruption relating to the cars and other illicit dealings for over a year. Damning allegations have been levelled at Keating, among which were that his company had obtained major tenders from the SAPS allegedly amounting to billions due to his friendship with Phahlane, who has denied the allegations.