Melissa Magiera, a professional dancer from Cape Town, and Alexander Jenkinson, 18, from Cullinan, walked away with the title of 2018 Top Model SA at the Big Top Arena in Carnival City at the weekend. The beautiful 22-year-old Magiera said winning Top Model SA was a dream come true and she looked forward to what was next. The male winner of the title, Jenkinson, said: “Always believe in yourself, no matter what. Hard work and determination will get you what you truly want. “The harder I worked, the luckier I got,” he said. The experience of being South Africa’s newest top models had both finalists overwhelmed as thousands of Top Model South Africa fans gathered for the event on Saturday evening. “It still feels so unreal,” said Jenkinson. He and Magiera were among the 90 finalists from around the country who got the chance to strut down the runway in their fabulous swimwear and evening wear. One of the finalists who fell short of winning the ultimate prize was the Fresh Face category winner Jayme Scott, from Roodepoort. Nineteen-year-old Scott did not manage to win the Top Model South Africa title, but she was able to scoop a model deal with FanJam Model Management. “I am so proud of myself. It took a lot of self-discipline and hard work, but it all paid off. This is life-changing,” said Scott. The Fresh Face category is specifically for those who don’t qualify for the international model height requirements, but have striking features nonetheless. “Top Model South Africa has once again produced some amazing new faces. Apart from the winners, various 2018 finalists have also been approached by leading agencies, making Top Model South Africa the most successful scouting platform in the country,” said Top Model South Africa  publicist Leon Cloete. Last year, Deidré Engelbrecht and Dean Alberts won the title and handed over their crowns to the new title-holders. This year, judges were former Generations actress Sophie Ndaba, radio presenter Jacques du Preez and Top Model SA chief executive Suzette Marais.