Ajay, who is said to be on the run, is wanted in connection with corruption charges emanating from investigations into the Vrede Dairy Farm Project in the Free State and has been declared a “fugitive from justice” . Hawks spokesperson Hangwani Mulaudzi said in an interview outside the Bloemfontein Regional Court yesterday that the eldest Gupta brother had failed to hand himself over to the police as agreed and was now considered a fugitive. “We are looking for Ajay. We are not negotiating with him. We contacted his lawyers yesterday,” said Mulaudzi after seven of the eight people facing numerous charges relating to alleged multimillion-rand financial transactions at the dairy farm were granted bail. “We were expecting them to hand him over. We have not received any communication. So, there is going to be a search party looking for Ajay. There is a warrant for his arrest and we want to make sure that he is behind bars as soon as possible. “We know he has bodyguards and we would like to warn those protecting him that they could face arrest for protecting a fugitive,” said Mulaudzi, adding that more arrests were imminent. Atul Gupta, whose attempt to flee South Africa was foiled on Wednesday, was also not in court. It is believed that he is still in the process of handing himself over.  Mulaudzi declined to comment on Atul’s pending arrest. He would also not say whether former president Jacob Zuma’s son Duduzane, whose Saxonwold mansion was also raided on Wednesday, was among those they were 
targeting. The seven who appeared yesterday  were granted bail ranging from R10 000 to R200 000 and were ordered to surrender their passports and abide by the reporting conditions to police that they were given. The Free State Agriculture and Rural Development head, Mbana Peter Thabethe, who is accused number one, as well as his chief financial officer, Sylvia Seipate Dlamini, and former general manager district services for the department, Dr Takisi Janki Masiteng, were granted 
R10 000 bail each. Former Oakbay CEO Nazeem Howa, Sahara Computers boss Ashu Chawla, former Oakbay director  Varun Gupta as well as Tegeta Resources director Ronica Ragavan were each granted R200 000 bail.