They will mobilise in all seven regions for one more peaceful march before causing disruptions. A group of waste collectors working for numerous service providers last week marched from Marabastad to Tshwane House demanding that the City dump middlemen and hire them permanently. The crowd said they were being exploited by contractors who sat back and watched them do the heavy work in exchange for low salaries. They said it was about time the City rewarded them for their hard work and dedication given for nearly a decade in waste collection. However, City spokesperson Lindela Mashigo said job creation was extremely important, but absorbing these workers would be unfair and prejudicial to other potential candidates, including some who may have been already providing services to the city under the Expanded Public Works Programme. “The marchers claimed they have been working or are working for the City through labour brokers. This cannot be correct. The City is no longer utilising labour brokers for waste collection services," Mashigo said. “These can be people who worked for, or may still be working for, various contractors who provided waste collection services. These contractors are not labour brokers. They are service providers.” He said the City decided that over a period it would transform the waste collection service to be implemented through an internal mechanism, where the procuring vehicles would be used by its internal staff. “There may be a need to recruit new staff as a result of this in the future, but the City will have to follow its normal recruitment process when that need arises. Workers with experience in doing this kind of work will stand a better chance of being employed,” Mashego said. He said there was no legal basis for the City to employ workers of its former contractors as a group, which was what absorption was about. “It is not legally permissible or operationally prudent to just employ employees of another organisation as a group without following a fair recruitment process where the best candidates win the job.” However, spokesperson for the workers, Abbey Mahape, said they would not accept the City’s decisions and would "go to all lengths" to make their demands heard. “We have been working in waste collection for long, and we don’t see where we are going with our lives because we are being exploited. At the end of the day what we do benefits the City just like all the other permanent employees. “We are going to mobilise all of seven regions for one more peaceful march to hand over the same memorandum. "If the City still does not meet our one demand, we will have no choice but to down tools and cause disruptions because that’s how they want to get the message.”