Obama said this was unlike some presidents who hold on to power even when the electorate wants them out of office. He was delivering the 16th Nelson Mandela Annual Lecture at a packed Wanderers Cricket Stadium in Joburg to mark the centenary birth of the late anti-apartheid icon and former South African statesman. Obama reflected on the historic context in which Mandela grew up and what led to a boy from rural South Africa to help shape global politics and foster peace around the world. “Mandela came to embody the universal aspirations of dispossessed people all around the world with hopes for a better life and the possibility of a moral transformation in the conduct of human affairs. "He fought the fight to end apartheid. Through his sacrifice and unwavering leadership and most of all through his moral example, Mandela and the movement he led would come to embody universal aspirations,” Obama said. “It is hard to overstate the transformation that has taken place since that time. It was in service of this long walk to freedom and justice and equal opportunity that Nelson Mandela devoted his life. "And now an entire generation has grown up in a world that by most measures has gotten steadily freer, healthier, wealthier, less violent and more tolerant during the course of their lifetimes. It should make us hopeful.” Obama also said that despite the progress made globally in the past few decades, the world also had to recognise all the ways the international order has fallen short. “The world is facing strange and uncertain times and is at times like these that the example of Nelson Mandela is so important,” he said. Women were still suffering from gender discrimination at workplaces the world over, and racial inequality was still as bad as it was 100 years ago, Obama said. “It is a plain fact that racial inequality still exists in the United States and in South Africa. Women are still deprived of their possibilities. They are still paid less than men for the same work. Women and girls around the world continue to be blocked from positions of power and responsibility. “Women are disproportionately victimised by violence and abuse. For many people, the more things change the more they stay the same,” Obama said. Mandela’s legacy also taught the world that everyone was bound by a common humanity and that everyone had the responsibility to uplift and pull up less privileged people. “He came to embody the universal aspirations of dispossessed people all around the world with hopes for a better life, and the possibility of a moral transformation in the conduct of human affairs.” Earlier, President Cyril Ramaphosa stressed the need to join the fight against corruption with Mandela’s love for humanity, saying his much-publicised “Thuma Mina” (send me) mantra was akin to “Madiba sending all of us to deal with corruption, and to root it out on South African soil”. “His (Mandela’s) most enduring accomplishment was to teach us what it means to be human,” Ramaphosa said. “He taught us to strive, he taught us to struggle, strive and to serve, and to do so selflessly.” Ramaphosa also said South Africa did not only celebrate Obama as the 44th president of the US because he was a son of the continent, but also because he possessed many of the values that “embodies our struggles for liberation”. “In Obama we found a brother, a kindred spirit,” he said. The chairperson of the Nelson Mandela Foundation, Professor Njabulo Ndebele, urged all South Africans to find Mandela’s qualities and leadership within themselves, and ensure they live up to the legacy Tata left behind. “Let us find the Madiba in each of us. Let us be the legacy. Let us restore purpose, dignity and strength to our country,” Ndebele said. “This is the biggest Nelson Mandela lecture that we have held. The late Ahmed Kathrada, a former trustee of the foundation, always wanted to host the lecture in a stadium. He has finally got his wish.” Billionaire and philanthropist Patrice Motsepe also agreed with Ndebele, saying Obama represented the best of the US and the world. Motsepe decried the levels of corruption in the public sector and in the private sector, saying government and business needed to work together to fight the scourge. “In most cases in order to have a corrupt politician you need an equally corrupt businessperson. Corruption is often initiated by businesspeople,” Motsepe said. Businesswoman Basetsana Kumalo said the Nelson Mandela Foundation had made the right choice to invite Obama to deliver the lecture, which left her inspired. “He gave us a sense of hope for a new day. He told us that you need to work hard. Working as a collective, you can achieve a lot. He showed us we all have a role to play to make society, and the world, a better place,” Kumalo said. Media mogul and former actress Carol Bouwer was also left impressed. She said it was important for her to listen to the first black American president talk about “our first black democratic president”. “The world is in crisis now. Obama delivered the truth with his charisma and without offending anyone. I hope his speech will inspire world leaders to reflect on their leadership and find a Madiba in them. I was so inspired,” she said. The lecture's theme was “Renewing the Mandela Legacy and Promoting Active Citizenship in a Changing World”. Christo Brand, who was Nelson Mandela’s guard during his incarceration, was also there. Brand arrived on Robben Island in 1978 where he started working as a guard. At the time, Mandela had been a political prisoner there for 16 years. When Mandela was later moved to Pollsmoor Prison, then to Victor Verster Prison, Brand was with him all along. He said he was very happy Madiba was being honoured to this day. - Additional Reporting: African News Agency (ANA)