The retired journalist, 72,  from Garsfontein, has been a member of the club for more than six years, having joined after retirement in 2011. “The first thing that came to my mind was to join a rotary club. So I went on the internet and chose the Sunrise club,” she said. At the time, she never thought she would become its president: “I rather hoped I wouldn’t actually. I was happy to join and be part of the team. But over the six years I thoroughly enjoyed every moment with rotary.” Gough said she made new friends and had an opportunity to make a difference in communities, which was important to her. She said her induction as club president was a new, exciting and challenging role. She was looking forward to working with people and overseeing projects. “It’s a huge responsibility, but fortunately I’m part of a team. It is important in seeing a project completed and see the community smiling that the project is working for them. This makes a huge difference as it means a job well done.” Within the club, she said fellowship was important to her. “Getting to know my fellow members and forming good relationships make us work together as a team and secondly you can introduce more people into rotary that way.” During her tenure, she said, she would like to extend the fellowship by drawing young people into the club through fun walks and other exciting activities. Her other goal would be to make contact with community leaders to find out from them what they needed to ensure sustainability of projects. The club also takes high schools under its wing through leadership and student exchange programmes. Gough described herself as a country girl at heart. After matric, she did various jobs until she got herself a job at the Pretoria News as a journalist in 1976. “I had always wanted to be a journalist and finally wangled my way in.” She did any beat the news editor threw at her and eventually completed her BA in English and Communication through Unisa. She then worked as a media officer for the university until she retired. Gough described herself as an overachiever; she marked scripts for the university and translated; but apart from her new role as rotary club president, there was nothing more incredible that when she learnt how to touch-type. Back to her latest role, she said: “We'll find fresh projects; there is always something to get involved in.”