Mayiyane was cast by Village Gossip productions to play main character Fezekile Ntsukela Kuzwayo, who was known to many as “Khwezi”. The play was an adaptation from Khwezi The remarkable story of Fezekile Ntsukela Kuzwayo by Redi Tlhabi and now written and directed by multi-award winner Napo Masheane. “Playing this role I definitely carry a great sense responsibility,” said Mayiyane. “From an acting perspective, often when we are playing fictional characters it might be a little bit easier. But in a space where you are playing someone who is real the responsibility is sometimes, specifically at this time, greater.” The 30-year-old multifaceted performer said she wanted to do justice to Kuzwayo’s memory and telling the story of her life which was a very specific era in the country. “I feel honoured to tell her story and to give her a voice and face,” said Mayiyane. In reading the script, Mayiyane said there was a deeper insight into the woman that South Africa and the world got to know as Khwezi. “We were introduced to who she was and the actual human being behind all these events. I got an opportunity to sympathise and to get to know the person behind the headlines and the various remarks made during that time,” she said. “At this point, I have almost gotten to know uFezekile as a sister someone who I am allowing to live through my body for the duration of this play,” she said. The BA Honours graduate from the South African School of Motion Picture and Performance “AFDA” has used her craft to perform in various productions such as Africa Umoja, Songs of Jazz town, Rock of Ages and Mad Buddies. Having performed on international stages in over nine countries, namely the Apollo in New York, and London, she said she had to go into her character by acknowledging Kuzwayo’s humanity. “Firstly, I had to decide not to judge and not to take my opinion of what I have read whether through a book or what we are saying through a book or through what we are saying in the script. I needed to see her as a human being and that was the first place that I had to go to. “I had to go to a space of just respect for humanity,” she said. “Society is often looking for ways to disqualify and I had to refuse to disqualify her because I care about her story and her as a person. Then I am able to get to know her in her truth,” she added. Mayiyane will be performing alongside former Generations The Legacy actor and actor JT Medupe to play Jacob Gedleyihlekisa Zuma at the State Theatre from tomorrow to August 12. For Mayiyane, Kuzwayo’s story was one for many woman and she was willing to surrender herself to the character. “I look around me and I think for decades women have struggled with abuse and not having a voice. This is an opportunity to kind of say something. It might not be in a radical shouting-out way. As an actor and storyteller, I am going to use my tool and surrender myself, Nompumelelo, to allow this woman to tell her story beyond the grave,” she said.