July 29 will mark a year since McGowan was released by his captors after he and several other foreign tourists were abducted in Mali’s Timbuktu region by militants in 2011. A seemingly content and jovial McGowan and his ­father, Malcolm, joined Foreign Affairs officials in Pretoria on Tuesday at the launch of the Travel Smart campaign by the ­Department of International Relations and Co-operation, aimed at educating the public about the consular services the department offers. “When things go wrong it doesn't affect just the person being taken or who has the problem, it affects everyone - the governments, family and friends - and it has an enormous impact on everybody,” McGowan said. He said his ordeal began after he embarked on a motorcycle “trip of a lifetime” across Africa. Although he was well equipped for the journey, matters took a turn for the worse when he arrived in Timbuktu to collect travel documents he needed for other countries. “Things happened incredibly quickly, and the next thing I knew I was on the back of a land cruiser heading out in the desert in the Sahara,” he said. “When you get kidnapped you are vulnerable, there are so many unknowns and questions that can't be answered “Where Dirco got involved was as a medium where I was able to communicate with my family.” His father said consular services at Dirco had played a pivotal role in his son's return, and although his wife, McGowan’s mother, died before his return, she would have been proud of her son. Dirco is still working on the return of many other South Africans stranded in foreign countries, including two individuals among the 51 young teachers who were stuck in China. On Tuesday, Deputy Minister Reginah Mhaule said of those who had initially travelled to China, two remained in custody pending further investigations into how the group landed there without work permits. It is thought that the two may have been recruiters. Mhaule used the platform to caution South Africans who intended to travel overseas to conduct thorough research into the destinations of their choice, and to adhere to the immigration laws of those countries. According to Dirco, 824 South Africans are serving sentences in foreign prisons. The number has declined from the more than 1000 inmates recorded previously. Since last year, 155 South Africans have died abroad while 111 people have been arrested. The acting chief director of consular services, Chris Chetty, said: “We've been getting a lot of cases where South Africans get involved in labour disputes, and now want the government to get involved.” It does, however, issue emergency travel documents in cases of lost South African passports, provides assistance with contact details of local lawyers, interpreters and also provides appropriate help for those who may have been severely injured or involved in a natural disaster.