This is according to utility services MMC Darryl Moss, who said technicians and electricians were working around the clock to restore power. “The guys are pulling out all the stops. We do understand the terrible effect the power outage has on residents,” he said. “They have made some substantial progress and power could be restored to affected areas by Saturday if there are no complications.” According to Moss, contrary to what people thought about the livid residents, they had been supportive in helping the city restore power. “Residents are lending a helping hand by offering food and coffee to the workers at the police station. It really has been a great show of  support and patience from some residents.” Repairing the Wapadrand substation, damaged in a fire this week, could cost up to R60million. It was suspected the fire could have been caused by cable theft. But Moss said it was presumed the fire was caused by a panel inside the substation tripping due to a fault. However, further investigations would reveal the actual cause. On Tuesday a fire broke out at the Wapadrand substation, plunging several suburbs into darkness. The fire swept through the substation in less than 30 minutes, destroying all the electrical equipment stored inside. Wapadrand, Faerie Glen, Silver Lakes, Lombardy, Zwavelpoort and some parts of Equestria were still without  electricity. However, the power outage has not hurt everyone. General manager of Makro in Silver Lakes Lisa Cotley said their business had been booming. “With the last two days of the power outages, products that we have been selling the most are generators, gas bottles, kettles, two-plate stoves - anything related to that.” But some businesses that were caught off-guard suffered a great deal. Businesses - from petrol stations to hairdressers and restaurants - were all frustrated. A cashier at a Shell garage in Lynnwood said they were losing thousands of rand a day. Hair salons and others also spoke of the frustration of being unable to operate, as they depended on electricity for business.