It sounds like a match made in heaven, and seeing it happen on Saturday afternoon in Grahamstown, one wondered why it hadn’t happened sooner. They both have considerable credentials. Zenzi is the granddaughter of Miriam Makeba. Instead of falling under her shadow or escaping Mama Africa’s fame, she made a name for herself as the backing vocalist for her legendary grandmother, Bra Hugh and Dizzy Gillespie, and co-wrote songs for Makeba’s album Homeland, has several prestigious awards under her belt and today works as a composer/vocalist. Tiffin is not only the head of jazz singing, but also the acting head of jazz studies at the University of Cape Town and works all over the world. Her credits include performing with the Royal Philharmonic Orchestra, she can regularly be heard as a vocalist-pianist in Japan, and is an arranger and composer. The two have diverse voices - each in its own way is sweet as honey, and the warm and responsive audience took to them and the excellent group of musicians who performed alongside them like ducks to water. Repeating history from last year’s jazz festival, pianist Africa Mkhize accompanied Makeba Lee and Tiffin along with Romy Brauteseth on bass, and Marlon Witbooi and Tlale Makhene on drums. For those not in the know, Mkhize is the son of another jazz great, Themba Mkhize, and he has also taken inspiration from his father’s great legacy. The audience was taken on a wonderful journey of favourites from both singers, and was treated to some spectacular solo playing from the musicians. Makeba Lee treated the appreciative audience to Ngoma Nkurila - a Shangaan and VhaVenda song composed by  her late mother, Bongi Makeba. There were other favourites that demonstrated her versatility singing solo, and also Tiffin’s, and that highlighted their formidable pairing. Tiffin sang a new composition, borne out of her frustration with an associate, called Consideration, which involved some skilful skatting, and the lovely African Sunset which heeded the call of the continent. The stage also belonged to the players: Brauteseth made her cello sound like a trombone and, much to the audience’s delight, Witbooi could be seen relishing every single moment of his time on the drums, eliciting extraordinary sounds from them. Synergy was also the operative word to describe the way Mkhize and Makeba Lee made special music together. Makeba Lee closed with a rousing Aluta Continua for which a group of school pupils joined them in song on stage, their voices harmonising in unison to this liberation song. The concert passed all too quickly, and a good time was had by all in a really stand-out event.