COMMISSIONER Phumudzo Maphaha has distanced himself from the Department of Labour’s media statements of last week's proceedings into the Grayston Drive pedestrian and cyclist bridge collapse labelling it "inappropriate". Maphaha was presiding over the last sitting of the inquiry looking into the collapse of the temporary works structure which was being constructed on the M1 highway on October 14, 2015. He said he was choosing to distance himself from the release, stating that as the department had launched the inquiry into the bridge's collapse it was "inappropriate" to issue statements on the proceedings in such a manner. A complaint was filed with the commissioner after the department released its media statement titled: “Grayston Drive pedestrian and cyclist bridge project engineer accepts responsibility for the collapse of the temporary works structure.” This was in reference to responses given during the cross-examination of contract manager and engineer, Hein Pretorius. Maphaha said even though word had not been given by the department’s legal team, he would not apologise for things he had no control over or state that what was published was incorrect. This after Pretorius’ legal representative SC Bruce Leech lamented about the damage that had been done to his clients image. However the only reprieve Maphaha gave Leech was that his client could take legal steps against the department if he so wished. Legal representatives have until August 14 to submit their written heads of argument to the commissioner. And until September 28, to submit any responses to the other team's arguments. The Inquiry is investigating contraventions of the Occupational Health and Safety Act 85 of 1993 and its regulations which led to the collapse of the M1/Grayston temporary structure. The Department of Labour set up the inquiry following the October 2015 structure collapse which took place at approximately 15:25 and led to the deaths of two people and injury to 19 persons. Maphaha said he would take 90 days to look into all the evidence and compile his report for submission to the Director of Public Prosecutions some time in February.