The Royal Thai Embassy in Pretoria and Thai community in South Africa, led by chargé d’affaires Paisit Boonparlit, worked with the NPO, Prism of Hope. They donated boxes of hygiene products to disadvantaged children in five schools in the capital city. In addition, they distributed foodstuffs and warm clothes to Dynamic Women for Children care centre. The embassy said the events also celebrate the 25-year anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between Thailand and South Africa. Meanwhile, social activists Yusuf Abramjee and Catherine Constantinides joined hands in support of the Badirammogo Old Age Foundation in Olievenhoutbosch. Abramjee said the Nelson Mandela Foundation urged citizens to take action against poverty. As a result, they - with others - collected food parcels, toiletries and gifts for the elderly residents. They also got help from the police and established a food garden. In addition, security was improved with new razor wiring. Meals on Wheels is an NGO which received support on Mandela Day from, among others, iLAB. Before Mandela Day, staff based at iLAB testing sites launched an “iCAN Make a Difference” campaign, collecting more than 600 tins of food. A team participated in a cook-a-thon and helped with the distribution of meals in central Johannesburg. Meals on Wheels provides 2million meals a month from six office sites and 200 community kitchens. The Universal Angles from the Universal Paper Group, in partnership with Sage and the Tshwane Economic Development Agency (Teda), participated in Mandela Day in communities near the Ga-Rankuwa Industrial Park. Universal Angels works on projects in the field of education, as well as environmental responsibility, care for the elderly and promotion of small business interests. David Sher, director of Universal Paper and Plastics, said: “We aim to lead by example and encourage other businesses and individuals in the area to join us in changing the lives of those who are in need of assistance.” This year - with Mandela Day during the school term - the team started at the Bachana Mokwena Primary School with a healthy meal and a workshop where they were shown art techniques.