She said at least R27.5m was allocated to repair the five sinkholes in the 2017/18 financial year alone. Another R25m would be made available in the 2018/19 financial year for the rehabilitation of the sinkholes. City geologists and engineers had identified a total of 31 sinkholes, some which have already been repaired. Senkubuge said that due to the large number of sinkholes, a process of prioritising sinkholes was formed. The criteria included the safety to residents, exposure to risk, extent of damage, stability of the sinkhole, age of feature, scope of repair works, availability of funds and capacity to fix. “On July 3, the leadership of the City and the Gauteng provincial government visited the site of a sinkhole along the R55 in Laudium, and other areas in the city. “As you all know, the key strategic pillars of roads and transport, among others, is to keep our residents safe and protect the environment. "Given the large number of sinkholes in the city, we had to act with precision given the nature of damage to services, infrastructure and properties,” she said. The metro was doing its utmost best to minimise damage, disruptions and risk to it and its residents, she said. The City’s technical teams compiled reports which highlighted in detail the status of every sinkhole and the current status of repairs. “Two of the five highest ranked sinkholes were repaired in the 2017/18 financial year, with the remaining three earmarked for completion in the first quarter of 2018. "Three additional sinkholes will be repaired during the current financial year,” Senkubuge said. Workers have already started removing some of the barricades around the sinkhole affecting both Jean Avenue and Gerhard Street. Yesterday, they could be seen stomping the ground to restore the surface to its flat level. Phase one of repairing that sinkhole had negatively affected the Jean Avenue and Gerhard Street intersection, and was expected to be completed in August. The road would be opened partially for traffic by the end of next month. This sinkhole has frustrated local businesses people who found themselves losing profits and were forced to retrench staff due to fewer customers accessing their businesses. They took the City to court in January, claiming it was moving at a snail’s pace after the sinkhole was discovered last year. The City was ordered to commence work and start providing monthly progress reports. Senkubuge said the Laudium sinkhole site, which is 25m in diameter and 5m deep, was secured and geological investigations and repair methods were done. Repairs to the sinkhole were 90% complete and expected to be done by the end of August. She said sinkholes in Van Riebeeck Avenue in Lyttelton Manor and in Willow Drive in Irene were successfully repaired by the City’s construction teams. MMC for Economic Development and Spatial Planning Randall Williams, his Corporate and Shared Services counterpart Cilliers Brink and City geologist Ashika Sudu said some sinkholes could only be repaired by specialised construction companies. They said great progress was made but because “Mother Earth was unpredictable”, there was a possibility that more sinkholes could form while the City was still fixing the old ones. “It is important to note that sinkholes can occur naturally over time, but are aggravated in built-up areas due to leakage and ingress of stormwater, water or wastewater into the surface, and also through the lowering of the groundwater table through dewatering,” Senkubuge said.