The “Sparks of Hope” are individuals and organisations who work towards peace, justice, health and equality around the world. As part of the ongoing centenary celebrations, The Elders honoured Madiba’s life through a peaceful walk and thought-provoking dialogue at Constitution Hill in Joburg. “What a wonderful few days we have had, on behalf of my fellow elders, we would like to thank you for being part of the movement “You have shown you reject the siren songs of strong men and their small hearts. You have embraced hope, compassion and most importantly, solidarity,” said chair of The Elders and former Nobel Peace laureate Kofi Annan. Under the theme #WalkTogether, young people, elderly world leaders and various Sparks of Hope organisation representatives walked to commemorate a great leader. The former secretary-general of the United Nations, Kofi Annan was among hundreds of prominent leaders who embarked on the long walk around the Constitutional Hill precinct, including Mandela’s widow Graça Machel, his first granddaughter Ndileka Mandela, his former private secretary Zelda la Grange, former foreign minister of Algeria and UN diplomat Lakhdar Brahimi and former president of Ireland Mary Robinson. The active Elders urged the hundreds of grass-roots Sparks of Hope to continue the fight for peace, justice, health and equality. Annan said there were different ways to “light a spark of hope and continue Madiba’s long walk to freedom” around the world. “Collectively, we are the sum of our parts; we are a movement, and when we speak with one voice, our call for justice cannot be ignored,” said Annan. Mandela’s widow, Machel, called on the next generations to continue Mandela’s long walk to freedom by doing good and taking action. “For young people, there is nothing that can limit your ability to take action and responsibility to build and transform the Africa you want. “It is in your hands, take it drive it, transform and as we did on Tuesday: ‘Yes We Can’,” she said. “The Sparks of Hope speak for themselves, bringing out the best of what people across the world are doing and practising. It is a time for us to bring them together to amplify the space in which good and goodness take the imagination of the millions of people. On his 100th day, we are so proud to recognise that yes, we have selected 100 Sparks of Hope,” said Machel. For La Grange, Mandela Day was a bitter-sweet moment, especially being among The Elders. “It’s a huge honour to be here in Joburg with Mrs Graça Machel as well as to celebrate Madiba’s birthday,” she said. “It is a celebration, it is not a sad day, we remember him and all that he stood for. It is a day for us to be reminded of the values and principles that he so hard fought for and sacrificed. This is the best way for us to get together and to celebrate the humanity of Madiba,” said La Grange, “We should never forget this man’s legacy, and should strengthen it every year going forward by drawing the public’s attention to the things that he stood for,” she added. Madiba founded The Elders on his birthday in 2007 at the historic Constitution Hill, and over the past 12 months, the organisation has marked their 10th anniversary year and the Mandela centenary through their #WalkTogether campaign. Former president of South Africa Thabo Mbeki and iNkosi Mangosuthu Buthelezi were also in attendance, together with the former president of Liberia, Ellen Johnson Sirleaf.