Department of Environmental Affairs spokesperson Albi Modise said the Interpol Wildlife Crime Working Group had, during its meeting in Singapore last year, discussed the month-long global operation against illegal trade in wildlife and timber. “Codenamed Thunderstorm, the operation had targeted the people and networks behind cross-border wildlife crime.” Modise said during the global operation Interpol announced that 1974 seizures were recorded and 1400 people arrested during investigations and searches in 92 countries in May. “Among the seizures worldwide were 43 tons of wild meat including bear, elephant, crocodile, whale and zebra; 1.3 tons of raw and processed elephant ivory; 27000 reptiles including 869 alligators/crocodiles, 9590 turtles and 10000 snakes; and almost 4000 birds including pelicans, ostriches, parrots and owls. “In addition, officials had seized 48 live primates, 14 big cats including tiger, lion, leopard and jaguar, and several tons of wood and timber.” The department said the operation saw eight tons of pangolin scales seized worldwide, including almost four tons by Vietnamese maritime authorities on board a ship arriving from the Democratic Republic of Congo. “In South Africa, the South African Police Service; the Directorate for Priority Crime Investigations (Hawks); SARS Customs; the Environmental Management Inspectorate (Green Scorpions) from the Department of Environmental Affairs, SANParks, the provincial conservation authorities and the Department of Agriculture, Fisheries and Forestry law enforcement officers participated in the operation. “Attention was paid to transnational trafficking routes originating at airports and other ports of entry and exit between South Africa and Europe, Botswana and Zimbabwe, as well as to international mail centres and the value chain of rhino horn trafficking syndicates.” Modise said among the successes recorded was the confiscation of four endangered Spotted Ragged Tooth Sharks, also known as the Sand Tiger Shark or Dusky Shark, at Cape Town International Airport during an inspection of a container holding the illegal consignment. “The seizure of the live sharks which were being exported to the Netherlands is an indication that the problem of live shark smuggling is bigger than initially believed as demand for live sharks from aquariums worldwide has increased.” He said the sharks were seized after it was determined that they were being exported without the required permits in terms of the Marine Living Resources Act and the Marine Threatened or Protected Species Regulations. “The sharks had originated from Port Alfred. A laptop, cellphone and documents were seized during the operation. No arrests have been made and the investigation is continuing.” Modise added that two men were arrested in Daveyton by the Hawks, SANParks and the Environmental Management Inspectorate of the Department of Environmental Affairs for allegedly dealing in rhino horn. “The arrest was the result of a two-year investigation by the Hawks, and the Green Scorpions in SANParks, to identify the criminal supply chain and receivers of rhino horn in Gauteng. Mandla Mashele, 37, and Kelvin Malapane, 38, were arrested for illegally buying rhino horns, contravention of endangered species regulations, racketeering and money laundering.” Modise said two suspects were arrested for the illegal possession of elephant ivory by customs officials at the Ramatlabama border post between South Africa and Botswana. “The suspects were travelling to South Africa when they were arrested during a search of their vehicle. "Two kilograms of ivory was confiscated.” He said in Pretoria six men were arrested for the illegal possession of a pangolin. “The operation, led by the Hawks, followed a suspect offering a pangolin for sale to a policeman. The pangolin was seized and sent for veterinary care.” In the south of Joburg, in Walkerville, three men were arrested on May 11 for the unlawful possession of 700kg of abalone valued at R3.5 million, and operating a fish processing facility without a permit. “Members of the police and the Green Scorpions had executed a search warrant on the facility. A total of 18000 units of abalone were seized.” In Durban, members of the Green Scorpions, customs officials and Fisheries Control Officers of the Department of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries searched a ship in Durban harbour, while ad hoc tailgate and container searches were also done in the harbour. “During dockside inspections by the Green Scorpions and Fisheries Control Officers of the validity of fishing permits of local fishermen, abandoned catches that included mussels and under-sized fish were seized. No arrests were made. No illegal items were recovered during search of items at the International Mail Centre in Durban.” - African News Agency (ANA)