The government-led initiative seeks to help eradicate the rising number of disturbing incidents that have seen women and children abused and even killed across the country in recent months. The #100MenMarch follows President Cyril Ramaphosa’s call for everyone to adopt the “thuma mina” or “send me” call to action. He made the call from the day he delivered his very first State of the Nation Address (SONA). Subsequently, in answering the call, participants will be committing themselves to be sent back to their societies to help end violence against women and children. On Monday organisers said at least 100 groups of men representing government, the armed forces, businesses, labour, faith based organisations and non-profit organisations were expected to participate in the march. Each group would commit itself to bring at least 100 men, to the corner of Kgosi Mampuru and Madiba Street for the meet-up time of 8am, before proceeding to the Union Buildings at 10am. And, although the call was for South African men to come in their numbers, women were welcome to join in too, and the march has been endorsed by scores of organisations and individuals, including the Pretoria News and executive chairman of Independent Media, Dr Iqbal Survé. Dr Survé called on everyone to to raise their voice against violence, saying every person had a role to play in the fight against gender-based violence. Streets will be closed for the march, and motorists are urged to avoid Madiba, Kgosi Mampuru, Sophie de Bruyn, Bosman, Paul Kruger, Thabo Sehume, Lilian Ngoyi, Sisulu, Du Toit, Steve Biko, Hamilton and Wessels streets for most of the morning. The march resonates with Independent Media’s “Don’t Look Away” campaign from last year’s 16 Days of Activism, when thousands of readers of the group’s publications raised their hands and said “no” to women and child abuse. Organisers said people who could not march today were urged to pledge their support by signing an online petition, which is accessible through the link: https://www.gopetition.com/petitions/100-men-march.html Pretoria News