The West African country leader was speaking at the Union Buildings yesterday during the first state visit hosted by President Cyril Ramaphosa since he assumed office this year. Akufo-Addo said his country was fortunate in that its people fought hard against the colonial system which sought to appropriate land from indigenous people. “We were very lucky in our history in that when colonial powers were seizing land of the indigenous people in Ghana, a group of people got together led by the Gold Coast Aborigines’ Rights Protection Society. As a result of this mobilisation, they were able to prevent the seizure. To that extent, the problem of foreign seizures of land has not been an issue in Ghana. We owe it to the people who hundreds of years ago had the foresight to fight.” Akufo-Addo, however, said land problems his country experienced since then lay heavily on administration but the government was addressing the challenges to ensure land security in that country. Akufo-Addo and Ramaphosa’s bilateral discussions also came at a time when African leaders had committed themselves to open their countries for free trade movement to boost the continent’s economy in line with signed agreements and AU resolutions. In 2007, the two countries established a Permanent Joint Commission for Co-operation that would serve as a structured bilateral mechanism to provide for political, economic, social, cultural, scientific and technical co-operation. South Africa, which imports oil, has also committed itself to actively participate in Ghana’s oil project to assist the country which is facing debilitating fuel price hikes. Ramaphosa said he and his counterpart and their ministers had also discussed energy at great length. Akufo-Addo lauded his visit, saying he was fortunate that his presidency coincided with that of Ramaphosa. Tackling the influx of migrants in the EU and the US, both leaders were unequivocal on the matter. This comes amid suggestions that African countries ought to play a role in helping the international community mitigate the crisis by establishing migrant processing centres. Akufo-Addo said leaders on the continent had far bigger issues to worry about such as developing Africa’s ailing economy. He said the undertones by the EU and some foreign states suggested they wanted to prevent people from going overseas. Ramaphosa said: “Creating bases is akin to creating prisons for our people and I clearly don’t see how African leaders can accede to that.We have just signed an agreement on the free movement of people, so let the people move freely. “What they should do as more developed economies of the world is to invest in African economies so that in the end there is broad-based economic development and growth.” Akufo-Addo’s visit ends today.