These include the Mountain Top Chorale from Nigeria and the Kammerchor Wernigerode from Germany as well as new singers such as the Mpumalanga Mass Choir. In total, 16000 singers in 300 amateur choirs from 60 countries are taking part. After a rest period, the programme is packed from Wednesday onwards, when choirs perform in various categories. Saturday was a busy day with competition events around the city well attended and many guests stopping in at the World Choir Village for refreshments or to visit the games souvenir shop. Relaxed “friendship” concerts continued across the city, while the competition rounds - which can be attended by the public at a fee - were well received. The games have two types of competition in a total of 27 categories: Open competition rounds in which any choir can compete and the Champions competition for those choirs with more experience, especially competition exposure. Open competition winners included: Children’s Choirs/Mixed Boys Choirs: Drakondale Girls Choir School (SA) Ronel Laidlaw-Perks. Vocal Ensembles: SingFonix (SA), conducted by Riekie van Aswegen. Mixed Choirs: University of the Western Cape Creative Arts Choir conducted by Sibusiso Njeza. Music of Spirit and Faith: St John’s DSG school choir conducted by Carika de Swardt. On Saturday choirs gathered at the Sun Arena Time Square for an awards ceremony of the Champions Competition rounds in the first part of the competition. Four South African choirs - including one from Pretoria - were among the winners. The winners were: Children’s Choirs/Mixed Boys Choirs: Tygerberg Children’s Choir conducted by Hendrik D Loock. Youth Choirs of Equal Voices: Diocesan Girls’ School Choir from Hong Kong conducted by Dorothy Hui. Vocal Ensembles: Fortissimo from Bulgaria conducted by Milena Dobreva. Mixed Choirs: Diocesan Schools Choral Society from Hong Kong conducted by Felix Tsi Shing Shuen. Female Choirs: Aarhus Pigekor from Denmark conducted by Helle Høyer Vedel. Male Choirs: Diocesan Boys’ School Choir from Hong Kong conducted by Felix Tsi Shing Shuen. Senior Choirs: Hunan Zhiqing Art Troupe from China conducted by Yuefeng Zhou & Jun Wang. Musica Sacra with accompaniment: Tygerberg Children’s Choir from South Africa conducted by Hendrik D Loock. Music of Spirit and Faith: in akademie Graz from Austria conducted by Maria Fürntratt. Pop Ensembles: Harmonize from Republic of Korea conducted by Jangseok Oh. Scenic Pop/Show Choirs: Drakensberg Boys Choir from South Africa conducted by Bernard Krüger. Folklore a cappella: University of Johannesburg Choir from South Africa conducted by Sidumo Nyamezele. Scenic Folklore: St Mary’s DSG Choir from South Africa conducted by Lindy van der Meulen. Yesterday from 4pm, Executive Mayor Solly Msimanga hosted Africa Celebrates! Legacy Concert at the Sun Arena. It featured highlights of African choral music and celebrated the legacy of famous African singers. Instead of buying a ticket, everyone was asked to bring a blanket, a new pair of shoes or a packed toiletry bag to gain entry. These will be distributed to people in need in the city.  Events for Wednesday are: Mixed Youth Choirs at the Abernethy Hall (Pretoria Boys High School). Open competition from 2pm and Champions competition from 7.30pm.
Mixed Youth Choirs at the Aula (University of Pretoria) Folklore with accompaniment at the Aula. Open competition from 11am and 3pm. Mixed Chamber Choirs at the Musaion (University of Pretoria). Open competition from 11am and Champions competition from 7.30pm. Musica Contemporanea at the Opera, State Theatre. Open competition from 11am. Gospel at 11am and Jazz from 11.45am. Champions competition Jazz from 3.30pm and Gospel from 8pm. Musica Sacra a cappella at 
St Alban’s Cathedral. Open competition from 10.30am and Champions competition from 2pm and 7.30pm. Young Children’s Choirs at ZK Matthews Great Hall (Unisa). Open competition from 10.30am and 3pm. Young male choirs from 8pm with Champions competition from 9pm. To attend these events, buy a day pass for R200 at the Choir Village or one of the venues. This allows you to attend events at all venues.