Minister of Communications Nomvula Mokonyane said: “As we approach Women’s Month in August, let us continue to work together in the fight against gender-based violence.” The streets of the capital were a sea of green, blue, white and red, representing the national flag of South Africa, as thousands of men and women gathered for the peaceful march to the Union Buildings to take a stand against gender abuse. A group of bikers formed a convoy at the head of the march, revving their motorbikes as they went along. Taxi drivers and motorists hooted in acknowledgement as the marchers - flanked by police cadets - passed by. The atmosphere was filled with excitement as the convoy moved along, under the watchful eye of metro police officers, while Yethu Cleaning Services employees danced along in the streets, much to everyone’s amusement. When the marchers arrived at the south lawns of the Union Buildings, Mokonyane requested that the national anthem be sung with the necessary dignity and respect. Faith-based organisations blessed the gathering with a prayer. Vincent Kakupa, 64, said he was very excited that the government was finally hosting an event of this nature. He is the father of two daughters, and said he feared the circumstances that his daughters lived in. “Looking at the community I live in, I have experienced a lot of situations that lead youths to abuse women.” He said the deterioration of the morale of communities was the reason why young men were being misled. For some marchers, it was a day out, while for others it was a constructive learning session. With his eyes brimming with tears, 33-year-old Ephraim Leso said men were nothing without women, and it was time to treat women with the respect they deserved. “If men oppress women, who will come to their rescue when they are in need? Instead they fear men and classify us all as the same,” he said. * The government has appealed to all citizens to support victims of gender-based violence and those affected to seek help by reporting any form of violence to the police. The toll-free number is 0800428428. Child abuse incidents must be reported through the Childline toll-free number 0800055555.