After the monumental drama provided by both men’s semi-finals, the two longest in Wimbledon history, the showpiece proved something of an anti-climax. Anderson, bidding to become the first South African to win the men’s title, had spent 21 hours on court to reach his first Wimbledon final and his tank appeared to be empty in the opening two sets as a clinical Djokovic dominated. Djokovic, who had been required to finish his epic semi-final with Rafael Nadal on Saturday, lost some intensity at times in the third set and saved five set points as Anderson hinted at an improbable comeback. But he forged ahead in the tie-break and could celebrate a 13th Grand Slam title when Anderson netted a return. Djokovic, 31, had suffered a dip in form and fitness in the past two years and was seeded only 12th for the championships. Anderson, 32, was seeded eighth. “It feels amazing because for the first time in my life I have someone screaming ‘Daddy Daddy’,” Djokovic said on court as he cradled the trophy with son Stefan having joined the rest of his family and entourage. “Congratulations to Kevin, he has had an incredible run.” Anderson was gracious in defeat. He said Wimbledon was “such an amazing tournament for all the players who dedicate their life to be on this court”. He thanked his team, including “my beautiful wife” (Kelsey O’Neal, who has taken over managing his everyday affairs) and his mom, Barbara, who were in the player's box, and his dad Michael back home who introduced him to the game and coached him for 20 years. He thanked the fans for their support during the week, and acknowledged the South African flags flying in the crowd and messages from South Africa. After his epic semi-final victory over John Isner on Friday, Anderson said an unwavering belief in himself and single-mindedness were just two of the keys to his win. In the post-match press conference Anderson was reminded that after his herculean effort to down Roger Federer in an exhausting five-setter just two days earlier, it gave him more belief in himself. “I don’t know what got me through today’s match (the semi) other than just a will to try to succeed, keep pushing myself. “It was a war of attrition out there.” Anderson was asked to explain what went through his head when he fell and managed to pick up his racquet and play a left-handed shot. “I had elbow surgery at a pretty young age and actually played four or five months just with my left hand.” Anderson’s dream of becoming the first South African to win Wimbledon may have turned to dust, but he will be rewarded with a career-high top-five ranking and the respect of everyone who witnessed his incredible feats of endurance. - Reuters and Staff Reporter See Sport for more