The implicated official, Stefan de Villiers, was appointed in the mayor’s private office in 2016, with a grade 12 certificate and a bodybuilding certificate. Msimanga said De Villiers was a political appointee and the job requirements for positions such as his were different from those of municipal administrators. "All government leaders appoint and need support staff who can be trusted to handle our policies in government, communicate our message and handle sensitive information," he said. Msimanga was responding to reports suggesting De Villiers did not have the necessary qualifications for the post. According to the report, the vacancy required a person with a bachelor’s degree and 12 years experience, of which five had to be at a senior level. But Msimanga said De Villiers was by far the most qualified candidate for the job, saying he played a vital role in ensuring that he had time available in his schedule to communicate with all of Tshwane’s communities. "He has worked extensively in setting up engagements in our city for several years. It is imperative that I have a trusted individual heading up my diary to ensure all communities have equal and adequate access to their mayor," he said. Msimanga said the majority of officials who were recruited under the ANC administration were appointed on a waiver of minimum qualifications. "I have already called for an audit of the recruitment and employment conditions of all managers in Tshwane down to the level of deputy directors. This audit is not limited to political offices," he said. The waiver is evoked in the event candidates do not have all the minimum requirements, but are considered fit for their work. SA Municipal Workers Union (Samwu) secretary Mpho Tladinyane criticised the City’s application of the waiver, saying the provision would have been appropriate if there were no qualifying candidates. Tladinyane said Samwu had written a letter to City manager Moeketsi Mosola to ascertain whether De Villiers was properly qualified. "If indeed it is true that De Villiers does not meet the requirements, the said appointment should be reversed. We will not allow any political deployment that seeks to undermine staffing policy," he said. The ANC caucus in Tshwane has called for Msimanga’s head. The party also wants Cilliers Brink, the MMC for corporate services, to be axed for the role he played in De Villiers’ appointment. Caucus spokesperson Lesego Makhubela said: "Overwhelming evidence continues to pour which proves that they are incompetent, unqualified, inexperienced and unskilled white DA members breaking the law and flouting the recruitment policies of the City." He said the ANC wanted De Villiers to be removed with immediate effect and for the City to recoup monies paid to him. The report about De Villiers’ appointment followed recent controversies surrounding the appointment of another top official, former DA chief whip Marietha Aucamp, who was illegally hired as the chief of staff in the mayor’s office. Aucamp, who has since resigned, had an annual salary of R1.2million. Her resignation caused Msimanga to institute an investigation into allegations of irregularities linked to her appointment. The outcome of the inquiry found that she falsified her BTech degree. Makhubela said: "The police have made great progress in the case of fraud and corruption opened against Marietha 'Hlaudi' Aucamp, who we have no doubt will face the full might of the law and that every cent she received corruptly from the city of Tshwane will be recovered."