The City of Tshwane will within a month start with construction work at Rooiwal Waste Water Treatment Plant to limit sludge flowing into the Apies River in the north of Pretoria, said Utilitiy Services MMC Darryl Moss. “As we know the Rooiwal Waste Water Treament Plant has been declared a state of disaster. "The city has been working hard to put processes in place that will improve the situation,” he said. Moss announced the city's plans to improve the situation during his visit to the plant. “The first is that there is a tender that will be adjudicated within the next week to dredge the storage dams. "What has happened is that the excess sludge from the plant goes into the storage dams and when it gets full the sludge washes out into the Apies River,” he said. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  Moss said closed dams are supposed to be dredged out every five years, but Rooiwal plant had not been dredged for eleven years. “We are now about to start that within a month or so and that will go a long way towards limiting sludge flowing into the Apies River,” he said. He said the city has also put out a R250-million tender to upgrade the electro-machanical works at the plant. “That tender is already out and we have got a lot of contractors expressing interest in it. "The tender closes at the end of July and we would really like to award it quickly and get the work started on the upgrade of the plant,” Moss said. He said the city would also explore a long-term solution to the problem of expanding the plant. “We have to make the plant bigger and this is a R2-billion project and we are going to do this through a public private partnership. We have already started the process.It is a very long and involved process,” he said. He said the city needed to get national treasury approval and have the feasibility studies done to prove that the public/private partnership was the best option “We are convinced that it is the best route. We have started that process and it will go as fast as we can possibly make it,” Moss said.