Insiders within the party have corroborated information doing the rounds on social media that Maepa is indeed tipped to succeed incumbent Kgosientso “Sputla” Ramokgopa at the conference. Maepa apparently has the lion’s share of nominations from the branches, receiving a resounding 70% of nods from 57 branches. He is expected to go head-to-head with current regional secretary Paul Mojapelo, who amassed at least 25% of backing from 20 branches. Those lobbying for Mojapelo to succeed Ramokgopa lauded him for being a great political strategist. However, he was reluctant to comment about the leadership race. “I am the incumbent secretary and I am less concerned about nominations; I am organising the conference,” he told the Pretoria News. He said he wouldn’t know if he had received 25% of the nominations because all the nominations go directly to the province. But he jokingly said: “Maybe on Monday I will have time and start lobbying.” On the other hand, the highly-educated Maepa is seen as a devoted ANC activist, an avid writer and contributor to party publications such as Umrabulo. At 41, Maepa boasts an illustrious curriculum vitae, which includes his roles in politics, academics and the corporate sector. As a student he took part in politics as a member of the University of Pretoria’s SRC and served as a member of the University Senate and many other student leadership structures. He first enrolled as a medical student, but later dropped out to study for a BSc degree. He has a PhD in Public Affairs from the School of Public Management and Administration of the University of Pretoria. With more than 15 years of experience at senior management, Maepa has business acumen as demonstrated in his role as a consultant in business and professional ethics consultant in big organisations. Once an activist in the ANC Youth League in Tshwane, Maepa is credited as a full-time student of the late ANC leader OR Tambo. He has put together a seminal work on a concept he termed Oliver Tambo - Legacy, Paradigm and Thought - a work about Tambo’s life, including his leadership qualities. When contacted for comment about a possible victory, Maepa said: “If I had to vote for myself I would be confident that I would emerge victorious, but we have to get nominations from the branches.” He said he would rather maintain a wait-and-see stance until the IEC had verified and audited all the nominations. Asked if he would accept the nominations from the branches, he said: “When the branches say you must serve the people you can’t say no. I am an ordinary member of the ANC and I joined the party voluntarily.” According to information leaked to the Pretoria News, contenders for the position of deputy chairperson are party chief whip in council Aaron Maluleka and former MMC under ANC rule, Eulenda Mabusela. Deputy chairperson Mapiti Matsena, party caucus leader in council, will not be in the contest. He has always brushed aside the question about his interest in regional leadership, saying: “We are in the process of rebuilding structures of the ANC to win the confidence of the people of Tshwane.” With the strong backing of the ANC Youth League, deputy regional secretary George Matjila will contest for the position of secretary with Eugene “Bonzo” Modise. Regional Youth League deputy chairperson Ratshilumela Mashamba is expected to face off with Charles Masemola for the position of deputy secretary. Meanwhile, the ANC Women's League in the province is pushing for Simphiwe Mbatha to take over as treasurer, a position believed to be highly contested.