Wallace was speaking on the sidelines of the University of Pretoria's Research in Action Conference, held at its Prinshof campus on Tuesday. She said the research community deliberated on the fact that they could not present factual statistics of the cancer burden because the statistics were unclear. It was also noted that there was a need for a population-based cancer registry for data purposes. The three-day conference brought together the country's cancer community to present their research conducted during the past three years on the burden of cancer on the South African population. Wallace said: “There are lot of cancers which are not reported, and if we are missing them that means our picture is not complete. Lot's of cases go undiagnosed and people die. We are planning something in the dark and that's the problem with lack of data.” Wallace said cancer needed a lot of research as R6million to R7m was spent each year on it, mostly on funding projects. She said the conference enabled them to gather the researchers they were funding and provide an environment where the researchers communicated with each other to share their results and elaborate on them. “Surveillance is really important in order to understand what is going on in the country, which cancers are increasing or decreasing, the differences in races and how much we can put down to socio-economic contexts or genetic factors. “So, we need to understand the picture before we can intervene,” Wallace said. “I think the significance of the cancer burden is growing if you look at the incidence of cancer also taking a look at the mortality rate. “We also saw from presentations that it is going to continue as a result of all risk factors that lead to cancer and non-communicable diseases, which are becoming more and more of an issue. “You know there is rising obesity in the country. And although the legislation has done a lot to break the smoking rates, there are lots of behaviours that are going to lead to a bit of an explosion in non-communicable diseases in South Africa.” Wallace said the problem was because it was not adequately catered for, leading to the health system not being ready to deal with it. The conference ends today.