The City of Tshwane’s A Re Yeng Interim Control Centre in Pretoria West was designed to ensure that the safety and security of passengers at the Bus Rapid Transit stations was always taken care of, said  MMC for Roads and Transport Sheila Senkubuge. Senkubuge spoke on Tuesday at the official launch of the centre, where workers demonstrated how emergency cases were reported by on-duty bus drivers and how they were attended to. “We want to make sure that everyone in our city knows how safety measures on our buses work so that all members of the public are aware where the BRT system is going,” she said. She said the purpose of the launch was to make sure that the public was fully equipped with the information about anything happening with the buses. “We have had a few incidents in the past, but because of the type of security that we have on our buses we were able to follow up and see where the transgressions were,”she said. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  She said it was important for the public to know that the centre was constantly monitoring the operations of buses. “So if we have buses that are running late that information immediately comes here or we have a bus that is stuck or that needs rescheduling the information comes to this particular centre,” she said. According to her, the DA-led administration said when they came to power in 2016 they intended to review the entire BRT system, its effectiveness and whether it is really benefiting the people. “Since then there had been a lot of developments that have happened with regard to how the buses are working. The main purpose of today is that we are able to give that information to the public, give feedback so that when someone sees a construction in the neighbourhood he or she will know what is happening,” Senkubuge said. Tumelo Sithole, senior control manager at the centre, said: “This is the hub of the operation. We take the information and escalate it to senior management." The centre has a traffic control system and CCTV cameras, which monitor all the bus routes. There is the main screen enabling workers at the centre to see inside the station and whether buses are on time or running late. “We want the buses to be on time. If the bus is running early it means it has left other people behind,” he said. Sithole said an announcement could be made inside the buses in the event of emergencies that had occurred on the particular route. “We are able to make announcements inside the station to inform passengers that buses are late or that buses have been diverted.”