Premier David Makhura, elected unopposed as provincial chairperson, and former Joburg mayor Parks Tau, elected provincial treasurer, hail from Joburg while Education MEC Panyaza Lesufi and Gauteng legislature chair of chairs Nomantu Nkomo-Ralehoko are from Ekurhuleni. Lesufi was elected as deputy chairperson and Nkomo-Ralehoko as the party’s deputy secretary. However, it was the embattled mayor of Emfuleni local municipality Jacob Khawe who stole the show at the conference. Khawe thumped his rival Boycie Maneli of the West Rand by more than 180 votes. On Saturday, various senior provincial leaders admitted their branches had during their nominations chosen Khawe as their candidate to replace Papo. However, the big surprise was the performance of the ANC Tshwane region. It was the first time in eight years for the ANC Tshwane, the third biggest region in Gauteng, not to secure a single seat in the provincial top five. In the past, Health MEC Dr Gwen Ramokgopa, who hails from Pretoria, had been part of the ANC top five until her election to the party’s highest decision-making body during its elective conference in December last year. Ramokgopa had previously served as ANC deputy chairperson and recently deputy secretary. The exclusion of Tshwane unfolded when Makhura was elected unopposed as provincial chairperson while Lesufi beat Maile by a margin of 22 votes to deputise for Makhura. Lesufi obtained 623 votes while Maile got 601. Insiders said the tables apparently turned against Maile during the last-minute lobbying in the early hours of Saturday. According to insiders, Maile apparently lost the race after he refused to include former Tshwane regional deputy chairperson Mapiti Matsena, the party’s current caucus leader in council, in his slate. One of the insiders said: “Maile’s slate approached the Tshwane delegation for support. We asked them to include the name of Matsena but they refused.” The conference ended yesterday, but additional members of the new provincial executive committee were expected to be announced last night at the St George’s Hotel and Conference Centre in Irene. The more than 1300 delegates from Gauteng’s five regions elected the top five leaders on Saturday. Ekurhuleni delegate Tshilidzi Munyai said he was happy with the outcome of the top five election. “I am happy with our PEC leadership. Lesufi is a strong candidate and always comes up with new ideas,” he said. Asked whether he was disappointed that his regional chairman lost to Tau, Munyai said Masina “had nothing to lose”. “He accepted nomination for treasurer, yes, but he was doing it to ensure that comrades such as Khawe are elected. As our leader, Masina had nothing to lose he is happy as well.” Khawe said the ANC in Gauteng would do everything possible to ensure the party wins next year’s elections “overwhelmingly”, and also do away with e-tolls. “This conference made the call that e-tolls must go we say away with e-tolls, away! We also call on government to look into the high cost of living, which has shot up,’’ Khawe said, to rousing applause from delegates. “We must say no to corruption, we must say no to state capture. We also commit ourselves to ensuring an overwhelming victory for the ANC in the 2019 election,’’ he said. - Additional reporting: Getrude Makhafola/African News Agency (ANA) See Page 5