This morning Duduzane is set to appear before the Commercial Crimes Court in Johannesburg in connection with his alleged involvement in the bribery attempts by the Guptas of former finance minister Mcebisi Jonas in 2016. On Thursday, Duduzane is scheduled to appear in the Randburg Magistrate’s Court on a separate culpable homicide charge. Krause said his client was ready for both appearances. “We going to apply for bail. They claim to have a warrant for his arrest, which they want to execute. They are going to execute the warrant, and we going to appear before court,” he said. Krause said Zuma jr had not been running away from authorities, as had been reported. “There was a summons issued for him to appear in court on Thursday on a charge of culpable homicide resulting from a motor vehicle accident. The correspondence with the prosecuting authority in that regard has always been that after they issued a summons, he was going to appear,” Krause said. “It is wrong to suggest that he was avoiding or evading anything,” he added. According to Jonas, the older Gupta brother - Ajay - told him that they planned to make him the new finance minister in exchange for him working for the brothers. Jonas also alleged that - in the presence of Duduzane and businessman Fana Hlongwane - he was offered R600 000 in cash and R600million, which would later be deposited into his account if he accepted the controversial offer, which he said infuriated him. Yesterday, Hawks spokesperson Hangwani Mulaudzi said the elite crime-fighting unit would only be divulging details about the case today. “We will not speak on the matter until tomorrow." Most of Jonas’ allegations relating to the incident are contained in the Public Protector’s report titled State of Capture. The Gupta family have been accused of using their close ties to ex-president Jacob Zuma to influence cabinet appointments and loot state coffers by co-opting senior politicians and public servants. Last week, Duduzane was briefly detained at the OR Tambo international Airport on his arrival from Dubai, where he currently resides. Duduzane was in the country to attend the funeral of his younger brother, Vusi, who was buried on Saturday after he recently died from complications as a result of Lupus.