Community leader Tsaka Tsepedi said this yesterday during a Mandela Day clean-up of the legendary former home of Mamelodi Sundowns. He said the community had been failed numerous times by the province, the City of Tshwane and councillors with regard to the refurbishment of the iconic stadium. From about 9am, volunteers rolled up their sleeves to pull out weeds and prune trees outside the stadium. They also picked up rubbish collecting around the statue erected at the stadium's entrance. The intention was to restore and beautify the area and encourage residents to be proactive and mobilise them to bring the stadium back to its former glory. Tsepedi said the government was not concerned about the well-being of the people of Mamelodi, but wanted votes from them. “Half the sports facilities in Mamelodi are dilapidated. The government complains about the high drug scourge and crime rate, but doesn’t want to fix the recreational areas that will keep the community away from bad habits,” he said. He said it was first come, first serve. “If the DA, EFF or ANC fix the stadium first, we will repay them with votes; it's that simple.” Community member Ignatius Mathole said both the ANC and DA had agreed on the National Development Plan. The NDP included township economic revitalisation, which was what Mamelodi, and more especially HM Pitje Stadium, needed. “Regardless of DA or ANC, HM Pitje should be prioritised, as they both agree on the NDP." Mathole expressed the hope of seeing the facility providing football training to children. “It is important that we, as society, clean up HM Pitje because litter is everywhere. We need to encourage others to join us in participating in clean-up campaigns, and I was impressed to see the youth taking part in the clean-up.” He said more clean-up campaigns of the stadium were going to be conducted in coming weeks. “I looked around and it was very sad for me to see the state of the stadium. It looked different from the way we used to know it.” The once-glorious stadium, home to the African champions, Sundowns, and which has hosted numerous festivals, has been dysfunctional and dormant since 2005. It was identified by the Gauteng Department of Sports, Arts, Recreation and Culture as one of the four stadiums to be upgraded as part of the legacy programme ahead of the Fifa World Cup in 2010 The Gauteng Department of Infrastructure Development recently promised to resurrect the stadium, and in May mayor Solly Msimanga said it was on the City’s development agenda.