The two rivers have been selected for a clean-up by the Department of Water and Sanitation for the 67 Minutes for Mandela Day campaign tomorrow. Participants will head out to the two facilities as part of the Clear Rivers Campaign. It follows multiple calls from the public to restore the two rivers to their former glory. The rivers harbour litter, debris and foam due to pollution. The department declared July a Clear Rivers Campaign month in partnership with various water stakeholders, including the Water Research Commission, CSIR, municipalities, World Wide Fund for Nature, NGOs and other environmental organisations. Department spokesperson, Themba Khumalo, said the reason behind tomorrow’s campaign was to connect South Africans to the sources of water and the natural infrastructure, which were crucial for a water secure future. The department also said Jukskei River had become a nightmare for environmentalists and rated among the worst polluted. Statistics South Africa reported that the health of South Africa’s rivers had worsened over the years. Khumalo said: “Many factors influence the health of the river ecosystem, geomorphological characteristics, hydrological and hydraulic processes, chemical and physical water quality and the nature of in-stream and riparian habitats. Measuring each of these in detail would be impractical. “The river health programme therefore focuses on selected ecological indicator groups that are representative of the larger ecosystem, and are feasible to measure. In this way, complex data, collected for each indicator group, can be summarised and expressed in a format that is easy to understand. “The need for water security, particularly in the face of global climate change and a multitude of anthropogenic impacts affecting our rivers, calls for a national and unified approach to protect our rivers, wetlands and broader catchments.” According to the United Nations, contaminated water had become an issue in developing countries, where there was little infrastructure to deal with sewage and other water sanitation issues. People in developing countries dumped 95% of their untreated urban sewage into the same lakes and rivers they used for drinking and bathing.