Transport MMC Sheila Lynn Senkubuge disclosed the City had been involved in forging peace between the Menlyn Taxi Association and its Mamelodi Amalgamated Taxi Association counterpart. Senkubuge expressed complete shock at the shooting, adding that for years the parties had held regular meetings. They had been in the middle of progressive peaceful negotiations when the violence suddenly erupted yesterday. “We are completely shocked and surprised by the shooting because it happened in the middle of talks. We held a meeting with the associations earlier this week; and another was scheduled for next week," she said. “I was working very closely with the taxi industry to resolve this Menlyn and Mamelodi situation.” The shooting happened just before 7am and caused a shutdown of the CBD. Several streets leading off the Sisulu and Madiba streets taxi rank were gridlocked. Notices on various platforms and news outlets urged motorists to avoid the Pretoria CBD at all costs. Passengers and taxi drivers had to run for cover as the bullets flew. The drivers operate near Tshwane House, the SA Reserve Bank and Sammy Marks Square. Mxolisi Rakgalakane, for the Menlyn drivers, said there was a dispute between the drivers at about 6.30am after which a Mamelodi association member suddenly opened fire. “He pointed a gun at me, fired a shot but missed, and hit one of our drivers in the waist. “He continued shooting and hit a total of five of our drivers. We rushed four of them to Steve Biko Academic Hospital. Two of our drivers are in critical condition. An ambulance arrived later to take the last victim. “We're not happy with what happened to our drivers. We are calling for help from the government. We do not want lives to be lost. “We are not residents of the city; we are family men who come here to work. We did not sign up to die for routes,” he said. His Mamelodi association counterpart Bonny Ndjishe said he could not speak about who fired shots because he was not at the scene. However, he said he was happy that leaders from both associations were keen on meeting to find common ground. “At this stage, all I can say is that our passengers are a priority and we must make sure they are safe. It does not matter if a driver acted violently on his own, we must all come together and find a solution.” Passengers Shilavi Malumbete and Koketso Montlana said the shooting had taken them by surprise. They said they missed work and stayed at the scene in the crowd watching forensic investigators collect bullet cartridges and assess the two taxis that were shot at. Malumbete said: “I am scared for my safety now. Where are we going to get taxis to work if they are shooting at each other? They are putting our lives in danger with this violence. They need to sort out their differences and leave us out of it.” Metro Police spokesperson Senior Superintendent Isaac Mahamba said several routes had to be blocked following the shootingm, causing massive traffic backlogs in the morning rush time. SAPS spokesperson Colonel Noxolo Kweza said police were investigating charges of attempted murder, malicious damage to property and taxi violence. Police had a lead, but it was part of investigations and couldn't be discussed in public, he said. “Things have changed in the taxi industry. These days a taxi association holds certificates to use certain routes. These certificates can always be reviewed when an association wants to renegotiate. So far we have been doing that very well and very peacefully. "The city has one of the most peaceful taxi industries in the country; we didn't expect this.” City officials and Senkubuge met the associations yesterday to discuss the shootings and find a solution that prioritised the lives and safety of passengers and the public. Pretoria News