This comes after the Menlyn Taxi Association and Mamelodi Amalgamated Taxi Association (Mata) issued a public apology through the Pretoria News for the incident which shocked residents and caused traffic chaos last Thursday. They said they were surprised by the conduct of their members, who sought violence to resolve a route dispute. Senkubuge and Tshwane taxi industry leaders Piet Mahlangu and Abner Tsebe decided to convene all associations operating in the city to commit themselves to peace in writing. Each association delegated its chairperson to read and sign the pledge inside the Akasia Community Hall. The event was witnessed by Glad Africa project managers, who helped the City with its bus rapid transit projects that benefited the taxi industry while simultaneously improving City public transport. The company organised the pledge signing event and planned to laminate the board to keep all signatures visible as a reminder of the commitment the associations made. Senkubuge said: “I think it is very important that we sign this pledge as we all remember what happened last week. We know that here in Tshwane we have a good working relationship and one of the most peaceful taxi industries. We also want our commuters to know that we are still committed to ensuring that the Tshwane taxi industry provides peaceful services to the entire city.” She said the City joined forces with taxi industry leadership to resolve the cause of last week's shooting through emergency meetings. It was resolved that drivers from the two warring associations stop loading passengers at the corner of Madiba and Sisulu streets after they fought for the routes. They were, however, still allowed to offload passengers at the intersection. Mahlangu was proud of the peace pledge because he believed violence was not the nature of the Tshwane taxi industry. He said what happened last week would never happen again and should have never happened. “As leaders of the taxi industry in Tshwane, we really confirm that incidents of this kind should not happen because we have a table to talk with the City. “The MMC for Roads and Transport has always been very, very supportive of all our efforts to stop taxi violence. We condemn taxi violence in Tshwane in all possible terms.” Mahlangu said taxi violence was regrettable because it always affected the lives of innocent passengers and citizens who had nothing to do with the disputes. The event was also witnessed by several representatives of the Taxi Operation’s Peace Initiative Conglomerated Association, Greater Tshwane Regional Taxi Council and the South African National Taxi Council.