In addition, the inaugural African Safari International Gymnastic Competition was the first time in 50 years that Japanese gymnasts have competed against South Africans in the country. The two-day contest began with the South African junior team competing. Gymnastics SA coach Ilse Pelser said the team was extremely well prepared, but also hoping to learn from the other contestants. “The team is excited as it has obviously been a long time since we had an international event in South Africa. “We are really looking forward to making this an annual event as we have Wales, Bangladesh, United Kingdom and Japan. Hopefully we will have more countries interested next year. “For us this competition is very significant, not only because we have not hosted an international event on home soil for so long, but because we do not have many opportunities to compete in an international competition. “And this particular competition, we are taking it very seriously, we worked very hard for it.” Pelser said the team would take away lessons from teams from abroad, which they wanted to use to improve their quality. But they would also need to overcome the difficulty of competing with countries like Japan, which were renowned for their skill. She said the team hoped for a top two or three finish. Joan Colandrea could not contain her excitement for her son, who is part of the SA team. She said: “We are proud of the amount of work he put in - he worked hard every day. It takes a lot of effort.” She said her 16-year-old son Riccardo and the team practised four and a half hours a day. “Not everyone can do it. It takes a lot of discipline and commitment,” she said. In his keynote address at the official media launch of the competition earlier this month, Shuichiro Kawaguchi, the Minister Counsellor and Deputy Head of Mission at the Japanese Embassy, said the gymnastics federations of Japan and South Africa had entered into an exchange agreement. As part of the deal, Japan will assist South African gymnasts to develop their skills to stand a better chance of qualifying for the 2020 Tokyo Olympic and Paralympic Games.