He spoke last night at the GCIS offices in Hatfield during the launch of the #100MenMarch campaign, meant to spur men into action against women and child abuse. “I hope President Cyril Ramaphosa will be joining the event to show his commitment as well,” Abramjee said. He appealed to all people to join in. “Even if we can get 100 people on Tuesday or 1000 or 10000 people, let’s start somewhere because eventually that will become a movement and you have my 100% support." Speakers made a clarion call to every South African to take a stand against abuse. On Tuesday marchers will converge at Church Square and head to the Union Buildings to express their disapproval of women and child abuse. Acting GCIS Director-GenralPhumla Williams said the government had put in place institutions, strengthening laws and structuring police stations. “A lot has been done. But what is missing? What is becoming evident is that arrest and sentencing is another part of the solution. "As South Africans we need to question ourselves - and as the president said, we all have the responsibility of building this country  to be what we had envisaged in 1994." Partriachy, deeply-seated in society, had to be tackled, she said. “It is so deep in such a way that you still find a 16-year-old boy who still thinks it is okay to abuse a girl.” And there were still police who still could not deal with victims' issues, she said. “We do want every peace-loving man to join. We need to explain the #100MenMarch. This year we are celebrating the centenary of Tata Madiba and  stalwart Albertina Sisulu, who would also have turned 100. We had to be symbolic because these stalwarts spent their lives fighting for freedom and the rights of women and children." Mandisa Khanyile, an activist against gender violence from an NGO called Total Shutdown, said: “Enough is enough. Women are dying with protection orders in their hands.” She expressed appreciation to men who had decided to take a stand against women being killed. Actor Mpumi Mpama also pledged to break the culture of silence on  violence against women.