Oliver Aadnesgaard, appointed temporary works supervisor at the construction site, voluntarily appeared before the inquiry into the collapse which led to the deaths of two people and injured 19 others on the afternoon of October 14, 2015. However, throughout the day his response to most of the questions put to him by commissioner Phumudzo Maphaha and other legal representatives was: “I decline to answer that question as I may incriminate myself.” During the cross-examination, Maphaha constantly asked Aadnesgaard what he was responsible for, and if he understood the duties stipulated in his appointment letter. He also refused to respond to these questions. However, what did come to fruition was the fact that the engineer was the most senior person carrying out supervision on the morning of the collapse. Aadnesgaard told the commission that they normally ended work on the bridge at 4am and provided daily work diaries of what had been done. It was also revealed to the inquiry that as the most senior person on site on the morning before the collapse, he, along with a safety inspector and traffic officials, had given the green light to open the road. Although initially hesitant to answer questions as to who gave the authorisation to open the road, he conceded that it was him. As Maphaha closed off the cross-examination for the day, he also requested the engineer or his legal representatives to provide the appointment of a mentor and inspection reports within 30 days. On Monday, a witness from Nemai Consulting, Roxana le Roux, testified that there was no proof produced on site to check whether safety and health were adhered to. Le Roux said she was not sure whether the structure was being checked regularly to ensure adherence and attempts to gather such information from site managers had been to no avail. She also testified that while a scaffolding officer was appointed, a competency certificate was not available. Even the temporary works certificate before the collapse was still outstanding. When put to her if she was aware the Construction Regulations empowered her to stop work on site, her response was she would have had “good reasons to stop activities on site”. The section 32 Grayston Drive pedestrian and cyclist structural bridge collapse inquiry was announced by the Department of Labour. The inquiry had its first sitting in February 2016, with the last sitting on September 2017. It resumed on Monday and is expected to continue until tomorrow.