Arreaza just completed a highly successful visit to Mozambique where he met President Filipe Nyusi, who pledged Mozambique’s full political support to Venezuela, and undertook to strengthen relations in all sectors. Today Arreaza will hold bilateral discussions with his counterpart Minister Lindiwe Sisulu in Pretoria, and other ministers. Meetings were already held with the ANC secretary general and officials. Venezuela’s objective is to create a pole of power between Latin America, the Caribbean and Africa which can translate into a free trade zone that will counter western trade and political hegemony. “We are very supportive of BRICS and would like to forge closer relations, as we are already close allies with Russia, India, China, and South Africa,” Arreaza said. South African civil society has been energised by the visit of Arreaza, attending a solidarity meeting with Venezuela in Hammanskraal north of Pretoria yesterday evening, marking Venezuela’s Independence Day. There are also plans to attend a public lecture by the minister on the Bolivarian political and economic agenda at Liliesleaf heritage site tomorrow. “Over 50% of Venezuelans have dark skin with some link to Africa. We want to bolster our solidarity as countries of the South,” Arreaza has said. Venezuela’s Vice-Minister for Africa Yuri Pimentel, who is also in the country, said: “There is a great deal of complementarity between the two economies as South Africa needs oil, and there are aspects of South Africa’s industry that are more developed than that in Venezuela such as gold and diamond mining which South Africa is assisting us with." Despite Venezuela being under an almost total economic blockade by the US which has imposed suffocating sanctions on the country, Venezuela has remained wedded to its social agenda and providing to the poorest of the poor. “Despite the trouble in our economy, we haven’t sacrificed social investment. We are still providing hundreds of houses to the poor. We continue to distribute regular food packages to homes, and provide free health care and education to our people,” Arreaza said. “Our democratic socialist project is not the 20th century way of Cuba or the Chinese model, it is our own project which has a very strong state that seeks to have good relations with the private sector,” Arreaza said. Venezuela will continue to struggle economically given the fact that the banking system is largely controlled by the US, making banks reluctant to do any kind of business with Venezuela. “The problem is not President Trump specifically, but the US system, as the Executive Order declaring Venezuela a threat to the US was initially signed by President Obama." Arreaza believes that so far Chavismo has triumphed over the right wing opposition, and the government intends to build on its successes and address the many challenges facing the country.