South African Civil Aviation Authority spokesperson Kabelo Ledwaba said on Thursday the video that showed smoke and fire coming from one of the aero- plane’s wings was taken from inside the plane. “I received the video late on Tuesday night and immediately shared it with the investigating team. They confirmed that they already had a copy of the video.” Ledwaba said the cause of the accident would be outlined in the final accident investigation report. It was difficult to predict when this would be ready. “However, a preliminary report will be issued within 30 days.” The crashed claimed two lives and injured 19 people. One of the dead was among the people on the ground at the time of impact. The plane was carrying 14 South African passengers, three from the Netherlands and two from Australia. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  At the beginning of the two-minute, 50-second video passengers can be heard saying: “It’s getting worse. He better head it for the runway. He better head it for the runway quicker than he is trying to. It’s getting bad. It’s getting very bad.” The only time one of the passengers could be heard panicking was in the last seconds before impact. At that stage, it can be seen through the window that the plane was closer to the ground. The passenger keeps talking while he takes the video. The wing caught fire which flared up as the plane flew on. A few seconds later, it grows bigger as the plane heads down. Shortly thereafter, the images begin shaking, and the passenger complains about his device’s battery running low. But the roofs of several businesses, houses and parked vehicles become visible. The passenger spoke in Afrikaans, saying hopefully they could make it. He said “they must cut the engine”. This is followed by silence for about 10 seconds before one of the passengers says in a panicking voice: “It’s going to be bad.” Then there is a loud bang as the plane hits the ground. Less than two seconds after the crash, one passengers is heard saying, “I am alright”. Others start talking, and a cellphone rings. Passengers then started talking and moving out of the plane. One says: “Everybody out.” Pretoria News