Sometime in June last year, the metro had to obtain a court interdict against unknown persons who were restricting the collection, removal, transportation and disposal of waste across the city, spokesperson Lindela Mashigo said. “Today’s unlawful actions of closing landfill sites, barring the City's contracted companies from fulfilling their obligations and thrashing the City's seven regions are reminiscent of last year’s disruption of waste-related services,” he said. “Of deep concern to the municipality is that these unknown persons have extended their aggressive behaviour and went beyond waste-related services and are now disrupting the delivery of water infrastructure and electricity.” Mashigo said the unknown persons had waged an unacceptable, uncalled-for and irritating conduct that was not in keeping with the values that seek to ensure that the residents and business community benefit from services rendered by the municipality. “We call on our communities to rally behind us and shun those that are hell-bent on obstructing us from discharging our mandate of providing services to them. “The public has to know that the deviant actions by the forum members stand in the way of the delivery of services intended for them, which is the reason the environment is so contaminated. “To address the hindrance and delay of crucial services to our communities, the City has decided to approach the court for an extension of the court interdict obtained on July 4, 2017, to now include other services or projects that the City is implementing within communities,” Mashigo said. The disturbance of services was done under the pretext that no business opportunities were offered to these unknown persons by the municipality. “In order to ensure transparency in acquisition of services, the current administration has aligned itself with the open tendering system. “This simply means that a service provider gets awarded a contract through a fair bidding competition. “In this case, the City granted a contract to a service provider that qualified whereas the forum wants its members to receive contracts willy-nilly without tendering. “No forum or company will be awarded a contract outside the City's normal tendering process as that will be tantamount to favouritism, maladministration and corruption. “Our metropolitan municipality is morally and legally bound to ascertain the provision of clean surroundings, water, the supply of electricity and other necessary services to all the communities within its jurisdiction.” He added that once the interdict was obtained, the City was hopeful that through the SAPS and the Tshwane Metro Police Department, “the thuggish behaviour would come to an end.”