National police spokesperson Brigadier Vish Naidoo dismissed speculation that the unit was dispatched to ferry Duduzane. “Duduzane used a private vehicle,” said Naidoo. He said the unit was at the  Randburg Magistrate’s Court as part of the security personnel of former president Zuma, who arrived to support his son. “People need to know that all former presidents are still protected and entitled to VIP protection, including president Zuma,” said Naidoo. Although enjoying the protection of the crack unit, the former president remained in his vehicle as tempers flared after the brief appearance of Duduzane. Black First Land First (BLF) members got into a heated confrontation with lobby group AfriForum chief executive officer Kallie Kriel, calling him “a settler and racist”. The members, including its leader Andile Mngxitama, got angry when they saw Kriel talking to journalists following Zuma’s brief appearance in the court yesterday. When Duduzane left the court, BLF members shoved journalists, blocking them from asking him questions. “Justice will finally be done,” said Kriel in between insults being hurled at him. Zuma’s day in court came after AfriForum announced that it would privately prosecute him for the February 2014 accident which claimed the lives of two women. This was after the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) had declined to prosecute Zuma, despite a ruling by Randburg magistrate Lalitha Chetty which stated that he was negligent. Phumzile Dube died at the scene after Zuma lost control and crashed his Porsche into a taxi in 2014. Another passenger, Nanki Jeanette Mashaba, died in hospital a few weeks later. The BLF members hurled insults at Kriel, who tried to keep calm and laughed as he responded to them. “This is not a white country, it is a black country. Leave black people alone and go back to Europe,” BLF deputy president Zanele Lwana said. “You are a f****** settler and coloniser here. “You killed our ancestors. You killed our people You cannot talk for black people. You have no right to do that.” Kriel responded: “My schoolchildren don’t even behave like this I am not scared of you.” His words were met with even more anger and more insults hurled at him. Kriel was accused of being a racist, murderer and land thief. BLF’s treasurer-general Thandiswa Yaphi said: “You steal from us and then you come back and represent us. You are talking s***.” BLF has reiterated that the last president of the apartheid regime should be imprisoned. Lwana said: “Arrest De Klerk. Why is De Klerk not in jail? De Klerk is in charge of the murders and massacres of our people.”