THE Road Traffic Management Corporation (RTMC) is calling on residents who've fallen prey to corrupt law enforcement officials not to simply sit back in silence. The call comes after the recent arrests of four Ekurhuleni Metro Officials on Thursday, by the Anti-Corruption Unit in collaboration with the SAPS' Gauteng Special Projects Unit, Ekurhuleni Metropolitan Police Department's Compliance and Monitoring Unit and the Gauteng Traffic Compliance Unit. The officials, aged between 37 and 44 years, were set to appear in court on allegations that they conspired with motorists to defraud the state of hundreds of thousands of rands in motor vehicle licence fees. According to RTMC spokesperson, Simon Zwane, the four, included three senior clerks and a cashier were employed at the Benoni Licensing Department. The group allegedly colluded with motorists to clear outstanding vehicle licence fees and penalties by irregularly registering vehicles in the names of unsuspecting individuals or deceased persons and then re-registering same vehicles in the name of the original owner. Through this way, the fees payable by the original owner are dumped on an unsuspecting individual or deceased person, with the officials then soliciting a bribe for conducting these fictitious transactions. Zwane said the arrests followed months of investigation in which the transactions conducted by the four suspects were carefully analysed. Suspected transactions included mainly the registration of light passengers and heavy load vehicles. It is on the backdrop of this breakthrough that the Chair of Safety and Security has made further calls to the public to report to the organisation any information they may have of unlawful practice by other law enforcement officials. Zwane said those with information to take down the officials vehicle registration, area of operation, including the location and street name where possible. He said what would also help with investigations was if they also managed to get the name of the officer and estimated time of the operation. "There is a problem with the conduct of a few law enforcement officials which undermines the work of government and the safety of citizens." "If people know of such corrupt activities they should come forward and we will investigate. Once we have sufficient evidence we will make arrests and prosecute the officers in question," he added. This is not the first batch of arrests the organisation has made as they continued their campaign to address bribery and corruption in the traffic law enforcement fraternity. In January, 11 traffic officials from Mokopane, Limpopo were arrested on allegations of bribery and unethical conduct. At the time, the organisation reported that the latest arrests brought the total number of traffic officers arrested in Limpopo province to 33 since December 2017. Corruption at vehicle testing centres and licensing offices has also formed part of the RTMCs' efforts against corruption. Earlier in the year in Tshwane, two officers from the Lyttleton offices of the city's Metro Police Department were arrested after allegedly taking a motorist to withdraw money from an ATM for a bribe. Citizens are urged to call RTMC on: 0861 400 800 or send an email to billyp@rtmc.co.za. People concerned of possible retaliation can also rest easy as RTMC noted that all information provided would be treated as strictly confidential.