This was according to the party’s newly-elected chairperson, Dr Kgosi Maepa, who said the ANC had to go and plead for forgiveness from community members for the political goings-on in 2016. “Our strategy is to go to our people, sit down with them and ask them for forgiveness for the things we have done, the mistakes we committed and ask them to come back to the polls,” Maepa said. The party previously attributed its loss of power in the capital to internal leadership battles before the municipal polls. Maepa talked about the party’s political strategy after its weekend conference at St George’s Hotel, where he was elected as successor to the outgoing chairperson Kgosientso “Sputla” Ramokgopa. According to him, the new leadership drew inspiration from the positive climate within the country created by the ushering in of #ThumaMina and the new dawn mantras. “What we have done at conference is to revive and reinvigorate ourselves. “This is to make sure that we have enough energy to go to communities and convince them and win back their confidence to come and vote for us.” With the new leadership in place, Maepa expressed confidence that the political strife, which threatened to tear apart the party, was a thing of the past. “We are not having gate-keeping membership. We are not having internal squabbles. “We are the ANC that focuses on service delivery and helping our people to live a better life,” Maepa said. He believed that the party’s interaction with its grassroot supporters would be a turning-point for it to reclaim the municipality in the 2021 municipal polls. “We are now on a programme to reclaim ground lost in 2016, and to make sure we have better members, and make sure that we pass the threshold and even get a decisive victory in 2019 as a launchpad for us in 2021.” Asked how he would make sure that those who lost leadership contests rallied behind him, Maepa said: “It is the tradition of the ANC that the lobby groups disband after the leadership has been elected. “You have voted for Maepa and after the conference you now have to go and do the work for the ANC.” He said it was important for the ANC to remain united “particularly now that we are going to start to prepare for the 2019 national elections”. “Everyone must come on board because there are no losers,” he said. “The ANC has won because all people who were at the conference are ANC members. “The issue is not about the person who has been elected, but the programme of action that must happen post the conference and elections.” Maepa reiterated that the DA never won the capital city because none of the parties achieved the 50+1 threshold. “There is no one who has won Tshwane. Our people never voted in their numbers for the ANC because of the problems that were in the ANC,” he said. Asked how he would address political factions within the party, he said: “At the moment we have none of those things. “Those things don’t arise any longer. We cannot work on things that don’t arise. “We don’t have those things that we had in 2016 at the moment. All leadership elected are united behind the vision of the ANC.”