In response, the Gauteng provincial legislature's chairperson of committees, Mike Madlala, said they were in talks with business owners and different companies to hire ex-offenders. The interaction took place yesterday during a special visit to juvenile offenders at the Emthonjeni Juvenile Correctional Centre in Baviaanspoort by members of the legislature and staff. The visit was aimed at providing motivation and mentorship to offenders, to encourage them to take responsible decisions and to refrain from delinquent behaviour. “As offenders, when we come out we are going to have criminal records. I have an interest in entrepreneurship, but there’s a certain period we have to wait until we get jobs. What will we be doing then and who’s going to hire us?” the offender asked. Madlala told offenders about Lead Me As I Lead You (LMAILY), a movement targeting ex-offenders with the aim of exposing them to life-changing opportunities in leadership and education. “You can join organisations like LMAILY, it has changed a lot of lives and really helps you. You are even afforded the opportunity to ask for forgiveness from people you’ve wronged,” Madlala said. He also told them about government funding structures they could turn to should they wish to start their own businesses. During the interaction, Madlala also advised them not to be controlled by physical power but to always use their brains. “Some of you are here because you let physical power control you. But that’s okay because you are here to be corrected so that you can be a better person when you go out. “Physical power makes you stupid. Let’s stop using physical power as a tool and you will see how far you will go,” he said. The visit was part of the legislature’s men’s month commemoration, celebrated under the theme “Asikhulume njengamadoda”; a call to action for GPL men to engage fellow men on challenges they are faced with. The correctional centre houses juveniles aged 14 to 21 years, and forms part of the correctional services initiative to provide therapeutic and rehabilitation services to juvenile offenders.