This emerged yesterday after the SA Human Rights Commission (SAHRC) conducted a walkabout of the Jubilee District Hospital. The officials interacted with hospital management and patients on a visit sparked by allegations that the facility was in a dilapidated state. It was further claimed that there were water leaks everywhere, lots of unfilled posts due to lack of money, unfriendly staff, long waiting periods and water issues in the community. “On Thursday we will have a meeting with the City of Tshwane. We have summoned the mayor (Msimanga) and the municipal manager (Dr Moeketsi Mosola),”SAHRC provincial manager Buang Jones told the media. “The provincial head of the Department of Water and Sanitation must also come and account for this water situation that has been persisting for a while. If they don’t show up, we will be left with no choice but to issue a subpoena against the mayor to come and account for the water situation.” However, Jones said he could not make a pronunciation on their findings yet. He said the SAHRC delegation went to the hospital to test the veracity of the claims and give management a chance to respond to the allegations. During the walkabout, patients and staff said there was a need for proper infrastructure, more equipment and staff. Patients told the Pretoria News they often waited long periods before being attended to, if at all. Jones also interacted with residents as part of the investigation. He said they had noted commendable action taken by hospital management to ensure patients were satisfied, but could not overlook factors mentioned by patients. Hospital chief executive Damaria Magano said: “It’s a general knowledge that Hammanskraal or the municipality has a challenge with water. “But we can’t sit and fold our arms; there has been some interventions. “Between 2015 and 2016 the City visited the hospital due to the unavailability of water and from that time there have been about six Jojo tanks filled with water. “But also, as the hospital we can’t just fold our arms when there is no water, we go into our petty cash and purchase water. “As for water-related diseases, we haven’t had an increase. We can’t say in this hospital we’ve seen an increase in diarrhoea conditions. We are not sure about the clinics, but if it was severe the patients would have been referred to the hospital, so we haven’t seen an increase in diarrhoea conditions.” She said, however, there were instances where they had bought bottled water for both staff and patients, which has cost close to R2000 so far. Despite all the challenges the facility faces, positive things were also discovered during the visit. Neonatal unit operation manager Jame Makhafola said: “At the neonatal unit we are nursing premature babies who are critically ill. Our mortality rate has been reduced a lot. "We used to have 16 as the highest number but these days it’s five at the most and three at the lowest.” She said it was due to new equipment bought after 2011. “Those machines are helping us because many of our babies are alive today,” she said. Residents complained they had suffered from diarrhoea after drinking tap water and the water smelled of human faeces and was undrinkable.