Pretoria - The illegal sale of land in Wallmansthal near Hammanskraal continued unabated despite a plea by the City of Tshwane for people to desist from selling the stands to unsuspecting people. An undercover investigation by the Pretoria News team was able to track down the mastermind behind the scam. The seller identified himself only as Dubazi and claimed to be working in collaboration with the municipality to allocate stands located at a section called Haakdoring along the N1 route. "This piece of land could cost you R8 000. This is a valued investment which could benefit you in future," he said. He said one was not expected to pay the full amount, but can settle a deposit of R2000 and submit a copy of his or her ID. "Once the person has settled in the area he can pay the balance in monthly instalments of three months," Dubazi said. He said he started selling land in 2005 with each stand priced at R1500 at the time. "In 2009 we increased the price tag to R2500, then in 2010 it was R3500. We are now charging R8000,” he said. During the day Dubazi could be seen driving around in the area, looking for unsuspecting customers. He then asks whoever he comes across if he or she is interested in buying land. Once the person has answered in the affirmative, he would take him or her to open land without disclosing that he was not the rightful owner of the place. He said the size of the land was 60x40 square metres. "Perhaps in future you want to sell a portion or rent it out to other people. It will be all up to you," he said. City spokesperson Lindela Mashigo said the municipality was greatly dismayed after receiving reports that there was a group of people who were illegally selling stands in Wallmansthal, near Hammanskraal claiming to be representing the City. "The group is apparently issuing receipts with the City's logo. The sale is illegal and was not commissioned by the City of Tshwane. We urge the public to be vigilant about these land scammers who prey on the emotions of unsuspecting residents who are desperate for a place to stay," he said. He warned those committed the illegal act that they would be arrested, charged and prosecuted as their actions bordered on criminality. Mashigo said for more information on the said piece of land, members of the public were requested to engage the National Department of Rural Development and Land Affairs by visiting their offices at 184 Jeff Masemola Street, Pretoria.