“We are aware of these momentary network glitches and are attending to them urgently,” City spokesperson Selby Bokaba said. Bokaba said the free wi-fi service was not going anywhere as people had grown to depend on it. He said reports of the cancellation of the service at the 1055 hotspots across the city were “malicious rumours”. And contrary to the rumours doing the rounds, Bokaba said the council had approved a budget of R88.5million for the 2017/18 financial year for provision of wi-fi to communities across the city. This budget was being used to continue the provision of the service as a much-valued initiative for the city’s residents. Bokaba said the previous service provider, a non-profit organisation Project Isizwe, was no longer responsible for the project. The organisation had initially been paid under the former ANC-led administration with grant funding to build the network and provide the service. Bokaba said the transaction was flagged as being irregular by the auditor-general in 2016. Project Isizwe confirmed the ceding of the service to the City through a statement issued on July 19, in which it said it had stopped being the service provider for Tshwi-fi as of June 30. The organisation said the City would now be solely responsible for the network moving forward. Bokaba said the City had since put the operation of Tshwi-fi out to tender, and was awaiting the appointment of a service provider through a competitive bidding process. However, he said the City was continuing to maintain the service. “Even large network service providers experience glitches and it is normal. "So we will attend to the problem areas. The most important thing for now is that the service will continue.” He urged residents to be patient with the City, as it was finalising the appointment of a service provider. The City would maintain the service, as people had grown to depend on it, and the administration acknowledged the important place the service had in people’s lives. The City admitted late last year that it would not be able to sustain the full subsidy of free wi-fi indefinitely or fund the expansion of the network on its own. It said it would need commercial investment and partnerships. Meanwhile, some residents have voiced their dissatisfaction at the lack of the service. Karabo Mahlangu, a resident of Mamelodi West, said she had tried repeatedly to log on to the Tshwi-fi network, which failed every time. Mahlangu said all she got was a message reading: “Tshwane wi-fi failed to obtain IP address.” Another resident, Wesley Makinta, said he desperately needed the wi-fi to work as he used it for research and job hunting. Makinta said that although the wi-fi connected every now and then it was difficult to get anything done. “It's really slow and I had to walk around the neighbouring areas trying to find a stable network. Data isn’t cheap either, so we just battle to get by,” he added. Comments on social media have also lamented the interrupted network, under the hashtag #BringBackTshwifi. Pretoria News