“The judgment in the case impacts not only on the applicant's (De Lille) disciplinary processes but also on all disciplinary processes conducted by the Federal Legal Commission since 2011 when it was first appointed in this manner by the Federal Executive (FedEx) and Federal Council and all members who have previously lost their membership in terms of clause 3.5.1 without being given the opportunity to present mitigating evidence to FedEx,” the DA argues in its court papers. “This includes many members who were public representatives at the time, and would accordingly have unlawfully lost their membership of the respective legislative bodies. "It is in the interests of justice for the correctness of this court’s determination to be tested by a court on appeal,” the party's court papers read. The DA has started its fightback against the Western Cape High Court judgment, which effectively reinstated De Lille as a DA member. Last month, a full bench of the court found the party had flouted its own rules when it sacked De Lille. Judges Andre le Grange, Mark Sher, and Pearl Mantame, unanimously set aside the party’s decision to terminate her membership. But the DA argues that when it established its 2015 Federal Legal Commission panel, De Lille, who was then the leader of the Western Cape DA, was among the nine provincial leaders who recommended who should be in the Federal Legal Commission. “A member can only rely on non-compliance with a party constitution if she is able to demonstrate that the non-compliance caused the member prejudice. The establishment of the Federal Legal Commission in 2015, in which De Lille participated, did not cause the applicant (De Lille) any prejudice. “It was, at worst, an inadvertent error that had been normalised over three years thought the active conduct of both the DA and De Lille,” they argue. The DA also argued that the judges erred in concluding that there must be strict compliance with a party’s constitution, and that any non-compliance no matter how insignificant, must automatically result in invalidity. Responding to the party's appeal bid, De Lille tweeted: “I respect the DA’s right to appeal the recent high court judgment. After all, a fair trial includes the right to appeal.” The high court is yet to indicate whether it will consider the application.