This comes as many residents expressed outrage after their refuse was uncollected for a week due to disruptions of waste collection and disposal services. MMC for Agriculture and Environmental Management in the metro Mike Mkhari said protesters operated under the umbrella of a business forum and wanted the City to award them tenders despite their not following proper bidding processes for these tenders. Last week the group blocked entrances to the city’s landfill sites, causing disruptions in the refuse collection and disposal services. Mkhari said the protesting group had also threatened the lives of truck drivers contracted to collect waste in the city. “The relevant officials have been mandated to obtain a court interdict against those who made threats to disrupt other service delivery projects.” He said the court would hear the city’s presentation tomorrow. “We currently have a court order obtained last year, prohibiting the business forum from preventing waste collection by the city,” he said. Mkhari said the group had threatened to try to stop every project in the city if the municipality would not heed their demands of being given rubbish collection tenders. The feud between the City and the business forum negatively affected residents in many parts of the city. On Friday and Saturday, more rubbish continued to pile up in townships such as Mamelodi, Soshanguve and Ga-Rankuwa. As a result, other residents illegally dumped their garbage in some unoccupied spaces. But Mkhari said the city had arranged with metro police officers to escort the trucks whenever they went out to pick up rubbish. “From Friday we made sure that waste collection continues in other parts of the city,”he said. Residents could expect the waste collection schedule to operate as normal starting from today, he said. Protesters had a chance to follow the proper bidding process for tenders but failed to do so, he said. Meanwhile, mayor Solly Msimanga on Saturday morning braved the cold weather to lead some Mamelodi residents and a group of municipal workers in a clean-up campaign to pick up rubbish scattered around Alaska informal settlement.