The sporting oasis is deteriorating in the wake of neglect and misuse, and it has become a haven for nyaope users. Located in the D6 section of the township, the sports grounds have been a catalyst for most of the sporting success emanating from the township, and prestigious schools and rugby clubs like the Vodacom Blue Bulls once trained and scouted for raw talent there. But recently, the only activity that seems to be happening there is that of vagrants and nyaope users, who strip the already dilapidated structures, like the clubhouse and the toilets, and sell them. According to the head coach of Mamelodi Rugby Club, Lucas Makgoro, the facilities on the sports grounds have gone from bad to worse in the past year. “It breaks our hearts to watch one of Mamelodi’s gems rot away, more especially with the high scourge of nyaope in the community. The youth are left with no place to perform recreational activities and this has seen many of them resort to drugs and alcohol.” Club secretary Ndaba Molota said the “pathetic” and dilapidated condition of the ground was a major hindrance for them to develop professional sportsmen. “We always come to this stadium to practise and hone our skills, but the condition of the playing field is so bad that we face the danger of injuring ourselves”, said Molota. He said they had approached authorities several times, and urged them to repair and renovate the play-field and clubhouse. “We want our youth to make it big, but owing to the lack of proper infrastructure our efforts always go down the drain.” He said community members had had it with the state of their sports grounds. A nearby resident said:  “We just want to gym here at night. Paying for an actual gym is expensive but when we get here the gate around the field is locked.” When the Pretoria News visited the sports grounds they were met with a totally bleak picture. Half  the fence was ripped out, the clubhouse had broken windows, the toilets and urinals were in a terrible condition and gave off a pungent stench. There was also a broken electricity box with all the wires ripped out, a collapsing ceiling and empty door frames. Gym equipment, including rugby scrum machines, were in a terrible state, and their cushions were missing. The tennis courts also left much to be desired, with a loose rusty fence and worn out court. The sports grounds also have a remnant of a rugby field which seems not to have been cut for a long time. Two of the rugby poles, although rusted, were still present. “It is dangerous here at night. If we run around the area of the soccer field, there are ditches and holes we can fall into,” said Molota. The ground is home to the Mamelodi Rugby Club which has a senior side all the way down to under-10 players. Molota sad they recently opened a holiday rugby clinic to keep locals busy during school holidays.
“We are trying our best, but we can't do it alone. We need the City and locals to come on board.” At the time of gong to print, a response was awaited from MMC for Sports, Recreation, Arts and Culture Ntsiki Mokhotho.