The metro yesterday unveiled a fleet of 103 off-road vehicles, worth R30million, that will form part of the Cable Theft Unit. They will be on 24-hour patrol in addition to 1000 more security guards to be deployed to substations across the city. When he unveiled the fleet yesterday, executive mayor Solly Msimanga said the metro was still planning how the 1000 additional security personnel would be deployed. “We have identified hotspot substations which impact on numerous areas when cables are being stolen or tampered with. These include Rooiwal, Wapadrand and Waltloo; they are substations that hurt the most when criminals hit,” he said. The move followed one of the worst electricity crises in recent years after the Wapadrand substation was destroyed by a fire, leaving several areas in the east of the capital in the dark. Other problem areas include Mamelodi, where traffic lights are virtually never working due to theft of cables and vandalism. “This impacts heavily on the traffic and affects people’s jobs. Hospitals and clinics run the risk of turning back patients as they are left unable to attend to some medical emergencies,” said Msimanga. During the 2018 State of the Capital Address, Msimanga lamented how cable theft was bleeding the City dry. He said the Cable Theft Unit in the Tshwane Metro Police Department had come under increasing pressure in dealing with the fight against it. “This unfolding story of constant power cuts affects investor confidence in the economy of the city the country as well,” said Msimanga. The unit has been equipped with hi-tech equipment such as night-vision goggles and specialised technology and dog units inside the vehicles. “The night goggles can help you see a person standing several kilometres away on a cloudy, moonless night. This will help detect the criminals,” he said. Msimanga was reluctant to divulge the specialised technology in the cars, saying it might give criminals insight. “We have also incorporated other advanced and technological measures at substations, but again I can’t say what because that will hamper our mission.” From July to December 2017, a total of 1160 incidences of cable theft and vandalism of infrastructure cost the City almost R62million. The City loses R200m annually due to cable theft. The possibility of sabotage is suspected and has not been ruled out by the mayor. It was discovered that locks had been removed at a substation in Centurion in July, and officials prevented a fire from breaking out just in time. MMC of Utility Services Darryl Moss has admitted there were some “rotten apples in their barrel” who were involved in cable theft and some had been arrested. Those were employees of the City, he said. City Manager Dr Moeketsi Mosola yesterday explained that they had opted to purchase off-road vehicles or “bakkies” because criminals were going into rough terrain and mountainous areas where police could not reach them. “It is very worrying that these guys are in the middle of nowhere and actually know there are cables. This indicates that the criminals have our infrastructure plans, possible from City employees,” he said. He said a co-ordinated effort was needed from the provincial and national police because of organised syndicates working across borders, particularly for Asia and other parts of Africa. He said Gauteng had the most sophisticated syndicates posing as scrapyards. “We need security at borders to detect the copper.” Members of the metro police previously used maintenance and electricity vehicles to conduct their operations, which, according to department spokesperson Senior Superintendent Isaac Mahamba, was detrimental. “We’re happy with these vehicles. They'll allow us to do our job more efficiently."