On Friday, the residents went to court seeking a lifeline, and they will learn whether or not this was successful on July 9. Until then, they remain in the houses. In May, the Department of Human Settlements obtained an eviction order from the Gauteng High Court, Pretoria. The matter was not officially opposed by the residents. The court ruled that residents needed to vacate the houses by June 30. Peter Seolela, EFF chairperson in the area, said: “The court said the matter was not opposed, but this was not the case. The court’s secretary was the one who did not sign the opposition documents and we 
have raised that with the court.” Seolela reiterated that there was no way they were going to move as the department did not give them alternative accommodation. “The people here used to be backyard dwellers and as soon as they occupied the houses, their landlords got other tenants. The judge did say the department needed to give us an alternative place as people just cannot go to the streets,” Seolela said. Gabriel Mailanaga of the ANC said the people who occupied the houses were mostly the elderly who had been on the housing waiting list for years. It would not be fair to evict them. “It is more than seven months that these houses have been occupied; why didn’t the department come within the three months after the people moved in? “Now that people are settled they want to move them. All that needs to be done is to approve that these people were indeed on the waiting list and leave them alone,” he said. Seolela said at least 25 000 people had their names on the housing list in the area. The department had told them that houses built would be allocated to people from Olievenhoutbosch, but that was not the case. Both the provincial government and City of Tshwane had indicated that residents of the dolomitic Mooi-plaas informal settlement would be relocated to the houses before the end of the year. “The list has people from Mooi-plaas and not those from Chowe informal settlement in Olievenhoutbosch as promised. Due to that, the people invaded the houses. “At first the houses were allocated to the people who had been on the list, but as soon as others saw that they were occupied, they too moved in,” he said. Seolela said: “All we need is for the court to hear our side of the story. We believe that then he will understand what is really going on and might let us stay.”