The 10th World Choir Games start on Wednesday and will see about 300 choirs from across the globe come together. Legendary musician Sibongile Khumalo, who will head the artistic committee during the event, said celebrating the 10th anniversary of the games in the country was affirmation that South Africa was being taken seriously across the globe. “This is proof that we also need to take ourselves seriously. It is not just about the world seeing that we are talented and have what it takes to host these games, but also about how we see ourselves as a country,” she said. The festival is made up of 27 categories, including children’s choirs, mixed youth, pop and ensembles, gospel, male and female, as well as universities and colleges. Khumalo said she was looking forward to the scenic folklore category, which will see different people participating according to their upbringing. “I am looking forward to seeing people appreciate their upbringing and culture through music,” she said. “For me that is just beautiful and having to experience that by people of different cultures and backgrounds is out of this world. “However, people will get to experience all types of music. “We have 27 categories and that means a lot of singing, a lot of voices, different textures and different styles of singing.” Khumalo said heading the artistic committee meant a lot to her, and she took the responsibilities very seriously. “I am very grateful to have been asked to be part of this because it says that there is somebody somewhere who saw what I have been doing and believed that I had something to offer. “I remember I was the musical director during the 2010 Fifa World Cup and drawing on the experience and applying it here shows that the experience did not go to waste.” Through choral music people get together, she said, and the festival was going to remind everyone of the importance of singing not for money, but enjoyment and bringing people together. Khumalo urged the public, music lovers and everyone else, to support the choirs and listen to the talent that South African had. She said this would be a competition of the best against each other. This was an incredible opportunity not only for choirs, but also audiences to see what their own people can do. “It is important for audiences to experience music making against the rest of the world. I really hope that people will come in their numbers to support, enjoy and appreciate the different textures of music,” she said. Sun Arena will host the opening ceremony on Wednesday and the closing ceremony on July 14. Both events are limited to invitation only. Choir performances will be held at various venues across the city, including the University of Pretoria, Pretoria Boys High School and the State Theatre. Tickets available at Nutickets. Don’t miss your full guide to the World Choir Games in the Pretoria News tomorrow.