Molewa was presented with the award - France’s highest honour - during France’s Bastille Day celebrations in Pretoria on Saturday by visiting Minister for Ecological and Inclusive Transition Nicolas Hulot in the presence of France’s ambassasdor to SA, Christophe Farnaud, other ambassadors and government officials. The French Legion of Honour, which dates back to Napoleon Bonaparte, celebrates accomplishments of distinguished individuals, irrespective of where they are from. Other prominent South Africans to have received the award were Nelson Mandela, Ahmed Kathrada, Archbishop Desmond Tutu and Nadine Gordimer. Hulot was warm in his praise of Molewa, her commitment to the struggle for freedom and women’s rights, as well as her work in environmental protection, in particular in negotiations around climate change through the annual Conference of the Parties (COP). Molewa became Environmental Minister in 2010 and he joked that eight years was a long time for a minister in this position because “every day you receive bad news about the planet, and (you) keep warning people about the dangers of climate change”. “From COP17 in Durban, where you launched the Durban platform until today, our countries have never ceased to work together on this issue. You played a crucial role at the COP21 in December 2015, and once again France is grateful for this. “Today France and SA continue to work together for a better world and a cleaner planet,” he said. The UN Climate Change Conference in Durban was widely seen as a turning point in international climate change negotiations. Molewa said she was honoured by the recognition and said the award would cement the bond SA already has with France. “I am indeed honoured and humbled to receive this award, more so on this important day. “This is a historic day to the French people and indeed to the whole world. “The French revolution, with its rallying cry of Liberté, égalité, fraternité (liberty, equality and fraternity) was one of the most  dramatic social events in modern history,” she
said. During the dark days of apartheid, many activists forced into exile found refuge in France. “I’m mindful indeed of a great weight of history as I accept this award. Allow me to thank His Excellency the President of France Emmanuel Macron for this recognition.” Bastille Day was attended by hundreds of guests and after the speeches they enjoyed French cheeses, wines and other refreshments and mingled on the lawns of the historic residence.