City of Tshwane spokesperson Lindela Mashigo said the theft happened between Midas and Olympus, and Meander south and Olympus. But he could not confirm if the culprits who plunged the area into darkness yet again had been arrested by yesterday afternoon. Households and business could hardly believe their eyes when darkness returned again. Most parts of Equestria and Wapadrand were affected. Motorists posted pictures on social media as they drove past the scene where some of the cables lay on the ground. Life had just returned to normal for at least 70% of areas plunged into darkness after a fire gutted the Wapadrand substation last Tuesday morning. Affected areas included Equestria, Silver Lakes, Wapadrand, Faerie Glen, Olympus and neighbouring areas. The city had to pay R60 million for emergency repairs, which were completed at the weekend. Shortly before the power was switched on in the early hours of yesterday, there was cable theft reported, said MMC for Utility Services Darryl Moss. “Just before we were due to turn on the power at around 3am, technicians picked up a problem and found guys trying to steal cables. They managed to get away with a bit of cable, but we managed to repair those immediately.” On Tuesday last week, the Wapadrand substation was engulfed in flames due to suspected cable fault, which ignited a fire. The enormous task of rebuilding a substation usually takes about six months to complete. However, City staff managed within a week. Moss said the city was doing its own investigations into what led to the power outage, while an insurance provider was running a separate investigation. “What we do know is that there was a giant electrical fault. What caused that, we really are not sure at this stage. But it was so big that our protection system was not able to respond to it. It was at the top of the substation, where it is still medium voltage. This happened at the Wapadrand substation. We had to rebuild the Wapadrand substation from scratch,” Moss said. Melissa Polh, who lives in Equestria, said on social media she suspected it was political sabotage. “Why is the east all of a sudden inundated with darkness. People know it is a DA stronghold,” she said. She has had to buy dry ice, which cost R235 for four pieces, to keep her food frozen while the power was out. “Then there are the usual difficulties: you can’t take a bath at your own place, so I have to go to my son-in-law’s place to take a bath,” she said.