Pretoria - Scores of Tshwane Uber and Taxify drivers shutdown operations on Tuesday morning in protest against alleged exploitative working conditions experienced by drivers of the e-hailing companies. Drivers parked their vehicles on open ground on Soutpansberg Road, Rietondale. They are calling on other drivers who share their grievances to join the demonstration. The drivers said they have been operating at a loss since Uber and Taxify started operating in South Africa. They claim that the e-hailing companies refused to increase their trips flat rates from R20 to R50 per trip and also increase trip costs. Chairperson of Tshwane operators Chris Rabohali said: "We want these e-hailing companies to meet us halfway considering that the cost of living has dramatically increased. We are barely surviving because of deductions and the fact that we must pay expensive passenger liability insurance costing each driver at least R2 000." "Drivers are tired of these companies, especially Uber. Uber refuses to talk to us. It claims that it does not speak to groups but individuals. They called us in groups when they introduced the component of paying in cash but now that we are the ones who want to engage Uber, it refuses to talk to us." To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  The drivers said since the beginning of 2018, there have been numerous petrol and diesel hikes but Uber has not increased costs. They said Taxify recently increased costs by 50c but that was still insufficient. Driver Steve Letsoalo said: "Petrol is very expensive and on top of that we have to pay passenger liability insurance and keep the cars in good condition to meet the standards of Uber and Taxify. To top it off, Uber takes a 27.7% cut per trip while Taxify takes 15% per trip," The drivers also said Uber claimed to take a 25% deduction per trip but it actually deducted 27.7%. They said they endured all the expenses and put in petrol but Uber and Taxify were benefitting mostly because they created the software application. The drivers claim that the companies were deactivating and dismissing drivers unfairly. They were joined by Samuel Molekwa, 42, who said he was dismissed without an explanation from Uber. "I only received a call from the Netherlands and they asked me if I ever answered a call while transporting a passenger. However, I use Bluetooth and normally ask passengers for permission if I feel like the call is important. Uber South Africa could not explain anything to me. They did not provide a response to my email and this has inconvenienced me. My car payments are in arrears now and my family is affected," he said. Pretoria News