Kiyosaki is an international giant in real estate investment. He  has also had a major impact on thousands of individuals and businesses in their approach to finance and investment. No stranger to South African audiences, Kiyosaki attracts a huge and appreciative following with his unconventional perspectives, courage and straight talk. Brought to the country by Success Resources you have the chance to register to attend a seminar of this financial game-changer, and the Pretoria News is offering the chance to win a ticket to attend. Says Kiyosaki: “I’ll be talking to delegates about the three types of money in the world today: God’s money, which is gold, silver and platinum; government’s money, which is the dollar, the pound, the rand and the yen; and what I call people’s money - cryptocurrency in the form of Bitcoin and other currencies. 
“We’ll be discussing what I see happening in the past, the present and the future of money and our world, which will allow delegates to make plans to prosper into the future, and not get wiped out, as many people will be.” Kiyosaki will be joined byexperts in global investment including Sandy Jadeja - chief market strategist; Tom Wheelwright - tax expert and Kiyosaki’s adviser; JT Foxx - World’s #1 Wealth Coach; DJ Sbu - social entrepreneur; Peng Joon - online wealth creation expert; Conray Labuschagne - Bitcoin and cryptocurrency expert; Robin Banks - mind power and personal mastery guru and others. Delegates will learn to distinguish between assets and liabilities, how you can put your money to work for you, then you have a chance of a return that is much higher than inflation; are you working for your money or is your money working for you; and understanding the difference between a good debt and a bad debt. Don’t miss this chance to change your financial future with the best insights from giants in the industry. Book now at www.BusinessInvestorsSummitZA.com/pr. Packages available from a basic Silver category ticket to a Platinum ticket category that includes an exclusive dinner for the delegates with Robert Kiyosaki priced at R19997.  How to win a ticket The Pretoria News is offering 5x Silver double tickets to attend the seminar at Sandton Convention Centre on July 28-29.Tickets include admission for two days in Silver Seating, event workbook and Success ToolBox Bonus download. To enter, SMS PTANews (SPACE) #ROBERT followed by your name, surname and e-mail address to 43637. Terms and conditions apply. SMS costs R1.50. The competition closes on Friday.