The meeting was attended by residents of Mabopane, Winterveldt  and Ga-Rankuwa, who accused the City of Tshwane of incorrectly billing them for water since the de-establisment of a municipal parastatal called Sandspruit Water  Association (SWA) last year. They claimed that since the de-establishment of the entity they have been receiving unacceptably high municipal bills every month. Before the dissolution of the city’s parastatal residents used to receive their water bills from the entity as it was their source of water supply. Community leader Jomo Pholo bemoaned a lack of consultation by the City before SWA was de-established. He reminded Msimanga that 4137 residents marched to Tshwane House in August last year, demanding Msimanga bring back SWA immediately. Pholo further accused the City of having removed most people from its indigent programme, which assisted poor residents with free water and electricity. Under the DA-led administration the poor were not seen as indigent, he said, but as people who could afford to pay for municipal services. “We can’t afford to pay for high municipal bills,”he said. He also raised the problem of sewage spillages in the streets of Ga-Rankuwa. “People in the City must work around the clock to ensure that our sanitation is on the same standard
as that in Waterkloof. We are all equal.” In response to residents’ complaints, Msimanga said the City had set aside dates from August 6-19 to address queries related to municipal bills. He urged residents to present their disputed bills to City officials, who would be stationed at local community halls. Regarding the de-establishment of SWA, he said the entity was disbanded because its systems were wrong. Msimanga said the SWA was riddled with financial mismanagement. Its books showed it was owed an amount of R800million. “There is no employee from SWA who was fired,” he said. Msimanga urged residents to take care of their infrastructure and to report those who vandalise it. He said City workers had recently removed a dead cow and a 50kg bag of cement from one of the sewage pipes in the area. Regarding the exclusion of the poor from the indigent policy, he said: “According to the law the information of every person registered under the indigent programme must be reviewed after every two years. “This is to double-check if their welfare status had not changed.” He said that during the review process it was discovered that more than 5000 of those registered under the programme were in full-time employment. He said people who earn less than R3200 were not supposed to pay for municipal services. Msimanga also announced that the historic Odi Stadium would be demolished. It has been declared unstable, he told residents. An amount of R7m would be used for demolition. The City would explore the building of a multipurpose centre as one of the options to replace it. “The City has set aside R100m for fixing roads in Mabopane.” In addition, R10m had been earmarked for road constriction in ward 24 in Winterveldt,” Msimanga said.