Her spokesperson Mbangwa Xaba said the addicts could not be admitted because they failed to follow strict protocol that sought to protect those who were already in recovery. The addicts had been inspired to kick the habit by a group of activists who walked from Sandton to Mamelodi and then Soshanguve on Friday and Saturday to raise awareness of the scourge. The participants stopped at several known drug hotspots to speak to addicts and encourage them to get their lives back on track. However, on arrival at the finish - Soshanguve BB Clinic - the group was met by at least 80 addicts who needed assistance with rehabilitation, founder and organiser of the walk Khutsi Malala said. Some were accompanied by their parents. Malala organised transport for the addicts to be taken to the treatment centre. “Unfortunately, chaos erupted at the centre because management refused to take in the addicts. They had earlier given them the impression they would admit them. “The addicts were made to sign affidavits declaring that anything that happened to them while on treatment should not be blamed on the centre. “It was explained to them that the centre ordinarily admitted addicts on Mondays, but was going to make an exception with the group.” Malala said the addicts signed the affidavits and celebrated that they were on a road to recovery. “However, we then saw police arriving and management. At that time, management changed tune and said the addicts were acting aggressively and wanted to get themselves admitted by force. From there it was downhill and outright chaos; the police fired stun grenades to disperse everyone.” Malala said he was hurt by everything that transpired because management had deceived the addicts. He claimed Mayathula-Khoza had once taken addicts to the centre unannounced, and they were admitted. The group was transported to Mabopane Station, where most of them are regularly based. But according to Xaba, “we advised the institution that the people could not be admitted that late without being properly processed in terms of the admission procedure. The risk was that these clients had not been clinically assessed or undergone the process of eliminating possibilities of communicable diseases as most addicts stay in the streets”. He said there was also always the potential that they could belong to rival gangs, which could put those already admitted at risk of using drugs again. He claimed there were just over 40 addicts in the group. “We don’t know what their relations are with those who peddle drugs and the risk of that to the facility, and those who are presently admitted. Already, they were uncontrollable and public order police had to be called in to assist.” DA MPL and provincial spokesperson on social development Justus de Goede said that admitting a large number of addicts who arrived a the centre unannounced was always going to be difficult. “Nonetheless, we will take up this matter up with the department to ensure these guys are admitted as soon as possible while they are still willing. “We would be happy to see them being admitted today because they are people who need and deserve help.” De Goede said Mayathula-Khoza had taken addicts to the centre in the past and that indicated that perhaps the problem was not capacity, but preparing for the intake process over the weekend. Xaba said the department was urging the addicts to go back to the centre today and follow the normal procedure. “Their details were taken on Saturday night and therefore the process of initiating admitting them will be easier. “We are grateful to the police who were on site to assist with this situation on Saturday night. We call upon all those who wish to be assisted with rehabilitation to contact the department before approaching our institutions,” Xaba added. Mayathula-Khoza said: “I understand these young people were joined by some of their parents. I wish we could have them co-operating with government to ensure prevention because it is the most primary proactive measure. “We have several services, including our Ke Moja campaign, which is a slang for ‘I am OK without drugs’. “But if people must be admitted, we need to provide them with provision of specialist, social, psychological and medical services to address the social and health consequences associated therewith.” See Page 3