According to the African Cultural Development Foundation, the Bill of Rights guaranteed artistic freedom as well as freedom of expression to all artists. Foundation spokesperson Shane Dladla was responding to FF Plus leader Pieter Groenewald, who condemned the singing of the song at the closing ceremony of the event on Saturday. He said it was blatantly biased against white people and stereotyped them. But Dladla said: “The song in question has existed for a long time and the performance was proof that it can be sung in a choir format. The rendition thereof came out beautifully. In our considered view the song is neither controversial nor divisive. It was sung in a celebratory context.” Dladla said music could therefore incorporate elements of what was happening and what had happened in the past, without necessarily advocating for a particular position. The FF Plus has asked the song not to be sung as the lyrics stated, among other things, that white people had stolen the land from the black nation, which could contribute to racial polarisation regarding the issue of land in South Africa. Dladla said: “As for the debate around land reform, it is before Parliament and citizens are making their inputs.” Groenewald said his party wrote to Interkultur South Africa, title holders for the the competition which brought 16500 participants to the city for a week, asking it to condemn the singing of the song on its platform. The song, one of the oldest Struggle songs, laments the dispossession of the land of African people by colonisers. He said the lyrics of the song said white people stole land belonging to Africans, and the song was blatantly biased against white people. “Such statements about land have resulted in illegal land occupations, an increase in farm attacks and subtle threats made towards landowners who refuse to give up their land. When a choir sings something like Thina Sizwe at an international competition, it only adds to the racial tension in South Africa." Groenewald said it would be irresponsible of organisers not to condemn the song’s blatant racial polarisation. The song was also in contravention of the UN International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination of 1965.  What Thina Sizwe says: Thina sizwe esimnyama (We the black the nation) Sikhalelela izwe lethu (We are weeping for our land) Elathathwa ngabamhlophe (Which was taken away from us by white people) Mabawuyeke (They should leave it) Mabawuyek’umhlaba wethu (They should leave our land alone).