This year he released a remix of the song featuring the acclaimed Mahotella Queens to celebrate the centenary of Nelson Mandela. The 31-year-old Pretoria resident named after reggae legend Bob Marley said if was not for the radio stations in the city, the single would not have received much attention. “I do feel like I did this remix at the right time, now that we are celebrating the Nelson Mandela centenary. It is very relevant to his legacy because it is hip hop and touches a younger generation, whereas other songs about him are beyond the age group we are in now.” Don Dada said working with the Mahotella Queens was an honour because of the experience the all-female group had in the industry. “It was quite an overwhelming experience to squeeze all that into a day, you don’t get such opportunities often.” He said he had been a professional artist since the age of 13, one of his influences being his father. He said he listened to jam sessions with his dad, as well as to Dr Victor and the Rasta Rebels. Don Dada then took a decision with his father to start a recording label called Ruff Cut Studios. Soon afterwards they released their first project. He said his musical career, after the Mandela song, blossomed and led him to perform at the inaugural after-party of new Zimbabwean President Emmerson Mnangagwa. “After the Viva Mandela song I did another single, House of Stone, and just then the people of Zimbabwe started marching for then president (Robert Mugabe) to step down. And quickly after that a new president had to be inaugurated. “At that time we created a song titled Zimbabwe Kubatana and performed it at the inaugural party.” His other singles include Long Live Mama Winnie. “I try to keep my music genuine; I do not consider my music as songs, but tributes to legends. So it is more of a social duty. “As musicians we have a duty to uplift souls. Music is not only to party. I want to show a different side to it and I do not want to lose our African identity,” Don Dada said.