THE "window of opportunity" for the Centurion Aerospace Village (CAV) to create jobs and contribute positively to South Africa's industrialisation ambitions is closing fast. Even with world leaders from five countries gathered in the country for the 10th Annual Summit under the theme: "Brics in Africa: Collaboration for Inclusive Growth and shared prosperity in the fourth Industrial revolution" - the tool meant to assist government with that was falling far behind. This was the predicament DA spokesperson for Economic Development, Patrick Atkinson and spokesperson for Trade and Industry, Dean Macpherson said they had been confronted with during their oversight to the facility, in Centurion yesterday. Members of parliament were told of how the R1.1 billion, needed to continue the viability of the project, was not forthcoming from government's side. Atkinson said he was happy that the organisation had, since their last visit, managed to root out corruption. However it was not developing or creating jobs due to financial constraints. He said the overall structure of the business was created before the economic crisis hit the country and before incidents such as free education, had put a huge strain on the "public purse". "The fact of the matter is that government just doesn't have that kind of money to funnel into this project at the moment. So they desperately need public, private funding in order to survive." Macpherson said however, the organisation had been "handcuffed" as they were registered as a non-profit organisation. He said: "The CAV finds itself in a catch-22 situation, because either they find the money and try to push on with outside investment or turn tenants away and say they can't continue." Atkinson and Macpherson said they would report to parliament when it reconvened and get all the committees together from trade, defence and the economy sector. They would then try to address some of the issues the organisation has with regards to getting access to the air side of the land for their tenants. "We can't afford to see investors walking away because government refuses to get its act together and get going with things. Leases on the land is restrictive so only the CAV can build and rent it out instead of letting investors build for themselves," Macpherson said. He said what they hoped to put forward to the various committees and government was to restructure the entity as a whole, so it could move forward as a public private partnership. That way, Atkinson said, the organisation could give tenants 30 to 40 year leases and be able to create jobs, which research had proven was the main concern for citizens, followed by the land expropriation issues.