Pretoria - Outgoing Director-General for Home Affairs, Mkuseli Apleni, said farewell to the department who’s brand he managed to change around from the ground up. Apleni took the stand in front of staff members at the Department of Home Affairs offices in Pretoria thanking the men and women he said put in the hard work needed to help him bring the reputation of the department to what it is today. In a packed auditorium, Apleni recalled his journey within the department dating back to when he was the Chief Financial Officer. And found the department swimming in debt and unpaid suppliers. He said when he was asked during the interview for the position, what he thought of his predecessors assertion that working for the department was like climbing a greased pole. The answer that came to him then was that he would find the holes where the grease was coming from, plug them up so he can climb up the pole, but doing just that was a bigger hurdle than anticipated. “As a leader, you must never think that things are going to go easy there are times to stand for the cause and as with the military when you're a soldier in a war, any instruction you are given you must comply with and complain later.” Apleni said even though he came in with minimal knowledge of the work of the department, the team he had behind him were able to fix the department’s financial woes. He urged the department’s staff: “Let's not play with taxpayers money, that is the message that needs to remain.” However, he said the mark of his tenure at the department should not be judged now as he heads out of the seat, but rather if the department is able to keep thriving even in his absence. He leaves on a high note as he said he was pleased the department had managed to acquire an unqualified audit for a second time in a row now. Newly appointed Acting Director-General, Thulani Mavuso, said he knew no Home Affairs without Apleni, but that they would keep the pillars he had instilled in order to keep the department prospering. “We have strong pillars that we will ensure that will keep us steady and that is all your doing. So we thank you for those pillars, we will use them to take this department higher.” He concluded that even though departure was a sad moment, “all hands needed to be on deck moving forward and they would still call on Apleni until everything ran smoothly. Pretoria News