The court said Raul Balele, 47, of Brits kept the 15-year-old locked up in his home and used her as a sex slave. He admitted that he had sex with the young girl but said it was with her consent as her mother had “sold” her to him for R1500. He claimed the teenager knew of the arrangement and that she was happy with it. He also had a child with her, although she was a relative. But the girl earlier testified that she was told Balele phoned her mother in Mozambique and asked whether she could come and cook for him and he would pay for this service. He paid her travel costs from Mozambique to South Africa and she was excited to come to the country. When she arrived at his home in December 2015 he however, locked her in the house during the day while he was at work and took her SIM card so she could not contact her family. He then raped her several times. She eventually managed to free herself and called the police. Balele said it was practice in Mozambique to marry one’s close relatives and once a girl reached puberty it was practice in Mozambique to use her as a wife. But the court rejected this and said he lived in South Africa, where this was against the law. An 11-year-old, a few months prior to this, was also raped by Balele and she testified how he “used her as a wife". Balele was caught red-handed when the child’s mother woke up one night and caught him on top of her. The terrified child ran away and hid at a nearby dam. Community members found her, clad only in a shirt. The mother testified that the child was so traumatised about what happened to her that she was in tears each day. The mother had to take her out of school. Balele said the mother lied about the rape because she wanted to get back at him for wanting to leave her. He said although they lived together at the time, they did not have sex for months because he was no longer interested in her. The court rejected this version and questioned why he would stay with her for months if he wanted to break up. The 11-year-old’s two friends, aged seven and 10, also testified how they were raped by Balele when they came to play with their friend at his home. All the children demonstrated to the court with the aid of an anatomically correct doll what happened to them. Balele maintained that he was a good man and that he never touched the children. The case is proceeding.