Sarah Mothapo said they simply did not reprimand their child for running up and down the street. She also blamed the person who took the child to hospital for causing further injuries. Mothapo said this during final arguments in the Pretoria North Magistrate’s Court yesterday. She faces charges of culpable homicide and failure to assist the injured child at the time. Her then boyfriend, Donald Khoza, and Samuel Kgalakgosi, who was an officer at Soshanguve police station at the time of the tragedy, appeared on charges of defeating the ends of justice. “A family member testified that they were sitting outside of the yard where a party or ceremony was held, but they could not reprimand the children to not keep running up and down the street,” Mothapo said. “So I can say they were waiting for the accident to happen. They look for somebody to blame because they did not take any precautions.” She argued that she was not the driver, but even if she was, the court could not assume Olerato died from the injuries. The death could have been impacted through the transportation of the child to the hospital. The child did not die on the scene, but at the hospital, she argued. Olerato was run over by a black Jeep Compass outside his grandparents’ home in Soshanguve Block H a week after his fifth birthday in 2013. According to witnesses, Mothapo was driving the car and had attended an event in the area. They further claimed that from the event, she went to Chillies, a famous joint in Soshanguve, where she found Khoza with another woman. The two women started to fight, after which Mothapo reportedly sped off. They claimed the car hit Olerato in the process. The witnesses recalled the driver saying, “Wait, did I hit something or someone?” and then driving off. It was alleged that she and her passengers conspired and asked another woman, Mantshole Moekwa, to take responsibility for the accident. “My argument is that I would like to first assume I was the driver of the vehicle on that particular day.” Mothapo argued that the State had failed to prove the charge of culpable homicide, adding that speed could only be measured by kilometres per hour and not by witnesses or word of mouth. “There is also another thing that could have caused the injuries. From the evidence that was presented, it was said the child flew and hit the pavement. “So we are not only looking at the speed of the child (sic) or the vehicle, but of the impact that took place when the child hit the pavement. So all that could have been presented to prove what could have caused the injuries.” She said it was evident that the child unexpectedly ran into the road, trying to cross to the other side. Therefore it could not be assumed the injuries were from the vehicle, she told the court. She said the State failed in its investigations. “The experts were going to reconstruct the scene an imitation of what could have happened, taking into consideration the report of the autopsy that was done by the forensics,” she said. “The experts were going to be able to determine from the child’s injuries which speed between the car and his speed (running) could have caused his injuries.” She told the court the State failed dismally to prove the cause of death. “The autopsy report indicated the child died from severe head injuries, patients of these kinds of injuries should not be moved or shaken after an accident as this could cause more harm, which can lead to death. We cannot assume the child was killed by the car,” said Mothapo. “You can imagine a 5-year-old child. This is a very fragile child and a Jeep Compass is an SUV it is like throwing an egg on the wall. Even if the car was travelling at 10km/* the child could have been injured.” The State argued that all the witnesses placed her as the driver of the black Jeep, which was when the plan began to cover up the gruesome tragedy. The case was postponed to September 12 for judgment.