The road has been a nightmare for motorist for years now - it is the only way for motorists from the region to access the N14 and N1 and is thus always congested, especially during morning and evening peak periods. However, a new on-ramp onto the N14 from Rooihuiskraal Road is in the making as part of the ongoing upgrade of the highway. It runs through Rooihuiskraal all the way to the eastbound carriageway. Roads and transport spokesperson Melitah Madiba said the reconstruction project of the N14 from the Brakfontein interchange in Centurion cost R426million. “It was a much needed project. The roads were backing up traffic, therefore slowing down production.” The project also involves reconstruction of the base in slow and fast lanes, construction of new concrete-lined side drains, new road markings, construction of new bridge parapets, and the reinstatement of fences and guardrails where required. The design life of the rehabilitated road is expected to be 20 years, with the project expected to provide employment, skills development, training and economic empowerment to small, medium and micro-sized enterprises. Phase 1 of the N14 project entailed the rehabilitation of 20km of the dual carriageway, starting from Hendrik Potgieter Drive and  extending up to Diepsloot near Centurion. Madiba said the project was already halfway finished and should be completed in March. The project will improve the structural and functional condition of the road by strengthening the pavement structure and providing a new asphalt overlay. In addition, new concrete-lined drains and subsoil drains will aid in the preservation of the pavement structure and add to the safety of road users. Additional objectives include the provision of skills development as well as to provide training and economic empowerment to local contractors. The project will extend over the next 24 months, and Transport MEC Dr Ismail Vadi appealed to motorists to exercise extra caution on the road during the construction period. MMC for roads and transport in the city Sheila-Lynn Senkubuge said the importance of roads was to boost economic development. “Good roads and infrastructure provide more efficiency, and access to employment, social, health and education services makes a road network crucial in fighting against poverty."