The wanted group of suspects left thousands of animal lovers furious and frustrated after four of the animals were found butchered, with their heads decapitated and some of their paws cut off. Despite the grisly action, the police found themselves chasing another group of would-be poachers from the park on the morning of July 1. Park owner Christa Saayman said she was devastated following the second attempt, although it could not be attributed to the first group of suspects. She said was left feeling very unsafe as she lived in the park with her family. Yesterday Hi-Risk spokesperson Arthur Crew said investigations were at an advanced stage and there was hope the culprits could be busted soon. “We have to say, we are very proud of all the concerned people who contributed to the investigations by giving us information. However, one of the frustrations we come across when dealing with these kinds of crimes is that most of the offenders are repeat offenders. You arrest them today, they get bail and then re-offend." Crew said a good example was that of the criminals involved in bank scams. “We arrest them for card cloning and then we find ourselves having to rearrest the same criminals after three months.” Crew said the National Prosecuting Authority needed to step up and assist the police and private security officers by meeting them halfway. A lot of arrests were made but suspects did not get incarcerated. Saayman said: “I have given the police a lot of information that can help them in their investigations. I would be very happy if they could catch these perpetrators and put them behind bars. These people are ruthless and what they did to those lions was very inhumane.” The park’s lion whisperer, Charmaine Joubert, said she was hurt because she was very close to the animals and considered them to be part of her family. “I feel like a part of my soul died when the animals were attacked and killed, simply because they are wild animals. I am extremely hurt and I hope that government can start educating children in schools about protecting and loving wild animals. “That could help them grow up knowing how important it is to love and protect these animals. I truly believe education could play a crucial role in the fight against poaching.”