Health MEC Dr Gwen Ramokgopa became aware of this during her unannounced visit to the hospital early yesterday. Medical practitioners at the 51-bed hospital told Ramokgopa that the demand for medical assistance in the region was very high. They said the hospital did not have enough staff to attend to everyone on time. As a result, queues remained long and patients grew impatient and complained of poor service. Ramokgopa visited Jubilee after it was classified among the worst-performing hospitals in the province. There were also complaints from the public that it was in a poor state. The hospital was last year listed among Gauteng’s most dangerous hospitals - public healthcare institutions that are riddled by “adverse” incidents that result in unintended harm to patients. This followed an assessment of provincial hospitals with serious adverse events, brought about by an act of commission or omission, rather than by the underlying disease or condition of the patient. The figures pertained to 2015. Although classified the worst, patients told Ramokgopa that everything was in order except for the long hours of waiting for help. Tshegofatso Serakalala, who was waiting in the triage room, said she had been there since 3am and had not seen the doctor by 9am. Serakalala, from Stinkwater, had taken the father of her child who had been stabbed six times in the back. “He was coming from a tavern when he met a group of boys who wanted to rob him,” she said. However, she told Ramokgopa that the hospital had been quick to help them when they arrived, but that the problem lay at casualty due to the shortage of doctors. “There are not enough doctors here, and the only time they attend to us is when there are no ambulances rushing people in. Everything runs smoothly, except when we have to wait for doctors.” In every ward visited, both patients and staff said they were happy, but that more staff members were needed to help patients. The administration office was neat, and patients praised the nurses, saying they tried their best under trying circumstances. Ramokgopa said: “All the patients I have spoken to appreciate this facility; they have raised the quality of water, which is not up to standard. But that is a municipal competency that we will raise with the City.  I am also aware that there are huge water projects in this area. “An important factor that I have noted is the shortage of staff. This year we are prioritising maternal and neonatal health; so we are calling on unemployed midwives, as the health service needs them.” On the issue of staff shortages, Ramokgopa said she was delighted to announce that eight posts had already been approved at the hospital.