Participants from all walks of life descended on the Pretoria Rugby Club in Groenkloof, covering the lawns from the morning with eagerness and excitement for the The Color Run 2018, dubbed the Happiest 5km on the planet. Clad in white, blue and green T-shirts, powder packs, yellow headbands and determination, participants literally “painted the town red” with red, blue and yellow and all other other bright colours of the rainbow. As “Tata” would have wanted it, the event brought together all races, and people of all colours mixed and mingled and had a good time. In fact, by the end of the race it was difficult to tell one from the other, as everyone was covered in a mixture of colours. It also brought a touch of New Orleans or Rio de Janeiro - the grandest parade yet - with The Carnival Tour coinciding with the run. Stilt-walkers, balloon-shapers, exotic music, and good-natured clowning were the order of the day. Showered in paint in different colours before the run, little ones who attended could not stop staring at one another with amusement due to the bright colours on their clothes. Participants hip-hopped, skipped and jumped their way through an untimed 5km course, which looped its way through multiple “Color” stations before ending up at the world famous finish, where they collected medals hung on coloured lanyards. Amazed motorists and bystanders took photos and hooted at the participants. First time participant 6-year-old Lesedi Mamabolo from Mamelodi, could hardly believe her eyes when so much coloured powder was thrown around; she said it was her perfect paradise. “This is the best run I’ve ever been to. I love the colour powder and the face tattoos. Although I coughed a little at first, I’m fine.” She said she missed last year’s run because she was sick with flu, but this year’s edition made up for it. Jason Cilliers, 22, from Lombardy, who prides himself in attending nearly all the Color Runs in Pretoria, said he had never experienced a carnival-infused Color Run. “This year’s one was something special. It had a different touch, and I must say it was well received by the public. Oh, and the music was also rad.” The Color Run is the world’s largest running series. Founded in 2011, its mission is bringing people together to make the world a happier, healthier place. But not everyone could stomach the showers of paint, Ananya Laghari, 36, said that after being splashed with red power at the first colour station, her sinuses started acting up. “Next time I know I should wear a cloth over my nose and mouth. But besides the sinuses I had a blast and danced like crazy.” For the first time ever, participants were given exclusive Color Run finishers’ medals. They participated in colour blasts, where splashes of colour were thrown high in the air to much excitement. Everyone vowed to be back next year.