But Police Minister Bheki Cele yesterday complained that he was not consulted by the Independent Police Investigative Directorate on the bill. Cele’s special adviser Simo Chamane told the portfolio committee on police, during public hearings on the Ipid bill, they were not given Ipid's presentation before it was tabled in Parliament. “We can put it on record as the ministry, let alone the fact that the minister is the adviser of Ipid, the minister has not had sight of the presentation. It is still the view of the minister that he supports the bill,” said Chamane. Ipid’s director for litigation and advisory Pule Maoka said when Cele took office he was not appraised about amendments to the Ipid Act. But he was briefed on other matters. The bill was brought to Parliament after the Constitutional Court ruled in 2016 that Cele’s predecessor Nathi Nhleko had no powers to unilaterally suspend Ipid head Robert McBride. Parliament is in a race against time to fix the bill by September when the Constitutional Court’s deadline expires. Portfolio committee chairperson Francois Beukman said the minister should have been consulted about amendments to the bill. He said Ipid should have given a copy of its presentation to Cele before it could be tabled it in Parliament for discussion. Beukman said it was standard practice that a minister would be consulted on the legislation affecting his department. “Any legislation that has implications must be submitted to the minister. "I want to ensure that all the role players have been briefed on the specific presentation,”Beukman added. All organisations that appeared before the portfolio committee said they endorsed the proposal in the bill for a two-thirds majority in the House to approve the suspension of the Ipid head. This would limit the scope of any abuse by the political head of the police. The Council for the Advancement of the South African Constitution (Casac), which was a friend of the court during the legal fight between Nhleko and McBride, said the bill would protect the independence of Ipid. Casac, the Helen Suzman Foundation and other civil society groups backed the proposal for a two-thirds majority of MPs to approve the suspension of the Ipid head.