This second annual Long Walk attracted various activists who were happy to put on their tracksuits, sneakers and hats and hit the road. Soshanguve resident and social activist Khutsi Malala launched the initiative last year after taking a photo that went viral and exposed the so-called nyaope Bluetooth phenomenon. He is also the founder of the Clean Up Squad, under whose banner the walk was staged. Addicts share the nyaope high via Bluetooth by using syringes to exchange their blood. Much as they could save money as they don’t have to buy extra nyaope, they were also exposing themselves to numerous diseases, including HIV. Malala said: “I got the name Bluetooth nyaope while speaking to a couple of addicts at the Soshanguve train station as they were injecting themselves. “I asked them why they were doing that and they said ‘it was instant connection, just like bluetooth’. We then realised that this was actually promoting HIV/Aids because they were sharing needles.” Malala then started the first walk last year to raise awareness. However, he said that despite the first walk, the number of nyaope addicts who used the Bluetooth method has since ballooned in Soshanguve and neighbouring communities. “Groups of 10 to 20 people actually share the same needles for as much as three months without changing it. Some of them share the needles with women who are prostitutes; it’s seriously bad. “George Mukhari Academic Hospital informed us that 90% of the nyaope addicts who consulted at the hospital were found to be HIV-positive. The worst part is that the condition of some of these addicts is so bad that their limbs are getting amputated because they don’t know how to use the needles properly. They stick themselves all over their hands.” Malala said the increase in the number of addicts who used the method prompted activists to be more proactive when doing the walk this year; they stopped at various drug dens and areas frequented by addicts and spoke to them. Dr George Senosha from Ditsala Children Shield and Projects, who was part of the walking crew, said nyaope could and would be defeated. There were already numerous youths who kicked the habit even without going to a rehabilitation centre, he said. They simply adopted a positive attitude and changed their state of minds, he said. The participants who made it to the finish point at the Soshanguve Block BB Clinic made their last stop at the R80 and M35 intersection, where they spoke to nyaope addicts who were selling various items on the road. Solly Maepa, Siphiwe Sibanda and Lucky Mahlangu said it meant a great deal to them that other people took part in such a demanding walk just to encourage them to quit the drug. “To be honest we do want to quit this drug because we know it is setting us back. We are always considering that and if there are people wanting to help us, we will take the help. I am touched because some of these guys are church people and walked all the way here just to pray for us,” said Mahlangu.