In one corner is MEC for Co-operative Governance and Traditional Affairs and Human Settlements Uhuru Moiloa, and in the other, Tshwane MMC for human settlements Mandla Nkomo. Throwing the first punch was Nkomo, who said Moiloa must shoulder responsibility for the violent protests with demonstrators barricading roads, burning tyres and damaging vehicles on Friday. Residents’ anger must be directed at Moiloa, he said, as he had decided to head to the courts. Moiloa had to engage with community members to explain the decision. “The cause of the protests is an eviction order granted to the department to remove illegal occupiers of RDP housing units in Olievenhoutbosch Extension 27. The order was granted after more than 800 incomplete units were unlawfully invaded last year,” Nkomo said. He said the Gauteng High Court, Pretoria had given the provincial department an interim eviction order in May. The community’s bid to suspend the order was rejected by the court, allowing the provincial department to go ahead with evictions. “The units, once complete, were set to be allocated to already approved families living in Olievenhoutbosch, Choba and Mooiplaats,” Nkomo said. But Moiloa has hit back, saying he could not take responsibility when people take the law into their own hands. He expressed disappointment at Nkomo's statement. “The statement is reckless, un-
necessary and does not contribute to finding a solution. As leaders we should lead by example,” said Moiloa. The department would not condone illegal actions that derailed government plans to improve the lives of qualifying and deserving beneficiaries, he added. He said the residents were living in houses that did not belong to them - and that made them guilty of a criminal offence. Moiloa said the provincial government had a high court order, allowing it to evict the occupants without the need to find them alternative shelter. “Deserving and qualifying beneficiaries will be allocated to the houses, regardless of the area they come from. "It is disingenuous to suggest we are responsible for the protests when opportunists use the plight of residents to further their criminal acts,” he said. Moiloa called on the community not to be misled by power-hungry leaders, and to stop the violent protest and for those who have occupied the houses illegal to move out before being evicted.