The 1940s thatch-roofed rondavels were once a college where Archbishop Desmond Tutu was schooled. Last year the Pretoria News reported on complaints by residents that the premises was being neglected by the City of Tshwane. Residents complained their efforts to get the City to weed out tall grass that had grown around the rondavels failed to yield positive results. Residents suspect that children who were playing in the precinct made a fire to keep themselves warm. The fire set nearby dry grass alight and a wind led to the fire spreading quickly to the rondavels. At least 10 of the 14 rondavels standing on one side of the property were gutted. City firefighters were called in and got the fire under control. Community representatives from a forum called Reaitirela put the blame on the City for removing security guards from the precinct. One of them, Kagiso Seriti, said: “We were surprised to suddenly see no security guards here. People started to jump over the fence because there was no one to stop them. "We went to the City to say that since the withdrawal of security guards from here the place had been turned into a drug den. They did nothing.” He said that in 2014 the municipality embarked on a renovation project of the premises, but only pavements were constructed. Resident Tshepiso Makgobathe said: “We went to ask for the police to patrol the place, but they failed to respond positively to our request. We blame the municipality for failing to protect it. We are now helpless.” In the 1940s, the rondavels were the home of the Pretoria Bantu Normal College, where Tutu and the likes of PAC stalwart Stanley Mogoba and legendary footballer Steve “Kalamazoo” Mokone were schooled. The college operated until 1959. The apartheid government had initially wanted to use the rondavels to provide accommodation for the increasing black population in Pretoria. In 1947, 50 units were built for this purpose, but residents protested against the project and they were demolished. Other rondavels were built to house teachers at the college established in 1946. Members of the City’s oversight committee on economic development and spatial planning previously visited the place and expressed dismay at how dilapidated it was. They estimated that it would require at least R1.5million to properly renovate the rondavels as an historic site. Committee chairperson Nkwane wa Nkwane expressed concern that there seemed to be no plans to renovate the facility despite R200000 having been allocated for that purpose by the provincial Economic Development and Spatial Planning Department. “The department doesn’t seem to have clear plans to resuscitate the site,” he said. City MMC for Economic Development and Spatial Planning Randall Williams refuted claims that the municipality had removed security guards from their posts at the rondavels. “The security contracts for the whole city had expired. It is not us who had moved security from a particular area,” he said. Williams said the ANC-led administration spent close to R22m to renovate the place, but there was nothing to show for it. The City was looking at the private sector to help. “We can’t continue spending money. We need to look for a different solution. We need to go out on a tender and get entrepreneurs who can run a business in that place.”