Kgosientso “Sputla” Ramokgopa was a dead mayor walking heading into the municipal polls in August 2016, but it is still a shock that your DA outvoted the ANC and is now in a position to form a government in the Tshwane metro. The figures of the previous general election showed that your DA had overtaken the then ruling ANC in Tshwane in terms of votes. But even “Sputla” himself, then ANC local leader and mayor of Tshwane, could not have thought in a million years that his mighty, yet ailing party in the city would have to move to opposition benches in the Sammy Marks council chamber. However, the unthinkable happened and history is made when you are inaugurated as the first non-ANC mayor of Tshwane in the democratic South Africa. The party is over; you settle in what was then the rather dismal mayoral office in Centurion - not the City Hall where it was going to be until Tshwane House was built. And you find that it resembles an ANC regional office; with your senior support staff members from the former governing party. Do you continue working with these people who do not share your political views, goals and mandate, or appoint those you trust from your own party? You then realise that the administration you are taking over is as politicised as they come, and that decisions you take and causes you embark on will have to be championed and executed by your political rivals. Suddenly you don't feel “safe” around them. You hire Marietha Aucamp (who has since resigned for not being honest about her qualifications) as chief of staff and executive director Stefan de Villiers. Both are as DA as Mmusi Maimane, Helen Zille and Tony Leon. It is now July 2018, and you are putting out fires after it emerges that De Villiers has no relevant qualifications for his job, but only matric and a qualification as a body-builder. This is just weeks after you had to deal with the Aucamp matter and announced an audit of top staff Mind you, the regulations allow for the appointment of people with no qualifications, provided a waiver has been obtained allowing them to work on relevant certificates within a stipulated time. It is human, easy and quite natural to get excited and call for Msimanga's head over such matters, as the ANC did after news on De Villiers’s qualifications broke. The ANC in Tshwane has been calling for Msimanga to resign and De Villiers to repay the money he earned in salary since he got the job. However, any leader in their right frame of mind and worthy of the office they occupy, will be surrounded by people they can trust, and in this case mostly from within their own party ranks. Mayoral spokesperson Samkelo Mgobozi - and Matthew Gerstner - who acted in the position in the early days of Msimanga's term - were shipped into the capital from DA structures elsewhere. Sputla’s former spokesperson Blessing Manale, an ANC activist, was shifted to another portfolio until his term lapsed. Would you (as Msimanga) re-hire Ramokgopa’s former personal assistant who he later married? Of course not. You would want your own. The question is, which government leader would have their day-to-day affairs and office managed by members of the opposition party? The answer is simple: none. New ANC regional leader Dr Kgosi Maepa has vowed the party will regain control of the metro in the next local government elections. This view is shared by the provincial leadership which is ANC. Should this happen, you can bet your political membership card and T-shirt that as mayor, he too will replace Mgobozi, De Villiers (if he keeps his job) and others in the mayor's private office at Tshwane House. That’s just how government goes, be it local, provincial or national. President Cyril Ramaphosa could not have appointed the likes of Helen Zille, iNkosi Mangosuthu Buthelezi and Bantu Holomisa when he became head of state early this year. Msimanga as mayor has a right to have people he can trust around him, provided all regulations are followed in appointing them. And, if you are an opposition leader, the best approach is to set up your structures and convince voters that you are the best alternative - instead of trying to govern from the opposition benches. Mudzuli is Pretoria News assistant editor. He writes in a personal capacity.