The Pretoria News caught up with participants who were relaxing at the World Choir Village ahead of the second part of the competition, and they raved about the country and its people. American Takoma Academy Choral’s choirmaster Lulu Mwangi-Mupfumbu - who originally is from Kenya - said she and her choir were enjoying their stay in Tshwane. “I feel right at home here and being able to get other people to experience Africa is just amazing.” Most of the choir members said they enjoyed pap, which is on sale at the village along with other local specialities such as bobotie, boerewors, chakalaka, biltong and bunny chow. They learnt how to eat it using their hands, which they said was quite an experience. “We have tried everything from pap to samp and boerewors,” she said. The choir took part in yesterday’s Jazz, Mixed Choirs and Gospel/Spirituals categories as part of the open competition. One of the choristers, Zoie Collins, said this was her first international competition, and she enjoyed the exposure to other cultures and the kindness of the people. Anastasiya Reznik from Russia embraced African culture and was seen wearing an African print doek (head wrap) and earrings. She said she had bought the doek at the village market and the vendor had helped her put it on. “South Africa is a beautiful country and my friends and I love it here, it’s only positive vibes.” She tried all the local fare, including biltong and masonja (mopane worms), which was interesting. She said she tried out pretty much every South African food from pap to masonja and biltong, and the experience was very interesting for them. Tuesday was a rest day ahead of yesterday, when competitions resumed. The closing ceremony of the World Choir Games is on Saturday at 7pm for 7.30pm. It is hosted by mayor Solly Msimanga and is by invitation only. The Choir Village is an initiative of Capital Collective. Its chief executive, Mareli Wassenaar, has appealed for financial assistance for the rest of the competition, as the village is privately resourced, with no funding aside from a R50 entrance fee. TODAY'S SCHEDULE: Aula Theatre, University of Pretoria Folklore with accompaniment - 11am and 7.30pm Champions competition  Abernethy Hall, Pretoria Boys High Mixed Youth Choirs - 10am Open competition Mixed Youth Choirs - 2.30pm and 7.30pm Champions competition  Musaion, University of Pretoria Mixed Chamber Choirs - 9.30am and noon Open competition Musica Contemporanea - noon, 3.30pm and 7.30pm Champions competition  Opera, State Theatre Pop Choirs - 2pm Open competition Pop Choirs - 7.30pm Champions competition  St Alban’s Cathedral Musica Sacra a cappella - 10.30am Champions competition Spiritual - 3pm Open competition Spiritual - 3.30pm and 7.30pm Champions competition ZK Matthews Great Hall, Unisa Young Children’s Choirs - 3pm Champions competition  Day passes cost R200 and are available at venues and the World Choir Village  Friendship Concerts  11:00: Menlyn Park - Central Court 15:00: Menlyn Park - Central Court 18:00: Menlyn Park - Central Court 11:00: Loftus Park 14:30: Loftus Park 17:00: Loftus Park 15:00: NG Universiteitsoord 17:00: Mamelodi West Community Hall Celebration Concert 19:30: NG Universiteitsoord  For Friday’s programme, see tomorrow’s Pretoria News