On the programme was the Mixed Youth Choir Open competition, where pupils from each school gave it their all during their performances. In the audience was Susan Fourie from Centurion, who said it was the first time she was attending the competition, and the experience was amazing. She was at the school to support a friend’s daughters. “My friend’s daughters both sing in the DF Malan High School Choir, and I must say these kids are really talented. All the choirs that sang here today have so much ability,” she said. The Mniki family also dedicated their day to supporting their daughter, who sang with the Willow Ridge High School Choir. Siphiwo Mniki said they were going to attend all the sessions, from morning to evening, as it was a proud moment for their daughter. “These competitions mean a lot to our daughter, so we decided to dedicate this day to supporting her choir. We even went to the friendship concert at Menlyn Park,” he said. Mniki said the World Choir Games was like the Olympics of music, and they were happy that their children were exposed to other traditions and cultures. He said: “The other day she came home speaking Mandarin which she learns at school, and to be able to speak that language with other Chinese learners excites her.” The category saw the performance by four of the South African choirs, two being from the City of Tshwane. TODAY'S SCHEDULE: Folklore with accompaniment at 11am Champions competition  Musaion, University of Pretoria Mixed Chamber Choirs at 11.30am and 2pm Champions competition  Desmond Abernethy Hall, Boys High University and College Choirs at 11.30am and 2.30pm Open competition  Opera Stage, State Theatre Pop Choirs at 2pm Champions competition  ZK Matthews Great Hall, Unisa Female Chamber Choirs at 11am Male Chamber Choirs at 11.30am Open competition  Female Chamber Choirs at 3.30pm Champions competition  Award Ceremony II - 1 Details to be announced Closing Ceremony Saturday
Parade of Nations Choirs will parade from Tshwane House to the area opposite the Union Buildings at 3pm tomorrow. The closing ceremony at Sun Arena is not open to the public, but will be broadcast on kykNET from 7.30pm tomorrow.