However, this is not the case in the city, where bridges are in a poor state and many without railings - stolen and sold as scrap metal. The bridge passing over the Apies River on Johannes Ramokhoase Street only has a thin wire and red construction tape. Another over the R80 highway off-ramp towards Rosslyn has been left bare and open. Hundreds of commuters daily make their way over the unsafe bridges. Thato Matlala, a pedestrian, said it was unsafe to walk over bridges because criminals could push them over if they refused to give them their belongings. “Of course we would prefer if the rails were fixed, but there is nothing much we can do. “Basic service delivery is a problem and this is the last thing that would concern the government.” Another pedestrian Dipuo Tshabalala said her biggest concern was for children passing over the bridge from school. “There are young children using the bridge on Apies River every day. It’s not safe for them. What is that little piece of wire or red tape going to do if they slip and fall over.” Johan Jonck of Arrive Alive said unsafe pedestrian bridges were cause for concern. He said that every year 35% to 40% of accidents occurred on bridges. Jonck said research had indicated that a lot of people were afraid to use pedestrian bridges because they felt trapped and did not know what was on the other side. “Engineering which includes maintenance of bridges needs to take a priority if we are to encourage people to use these bridges instead of walking on the road.” Lindela Mashigo, City of Tshwane spokesperson, said they had in the recent past experienced a scourge of theft and vandalism to infrastructure, including bridges. Mashigo said thieves were targeting the steel railings due to their commercial value - to be sold as scrap metal. He said plans to fix the bridge across the Apies River were on the city’s agenda. Mashigo said the City’s regional structures had been tasked with safeguarding infrastructure, especially those posing potential risks to the general public. “To that end these structures will attend to such complaints and needs as and when they come to their attention.” Metro Police spokesperson Senior Superintendent Isaac Mahamba said the vandalism to bridges had been taking place for some time. He said the metro police department, in collaboration with other law enforcement agencies, was conducting ongoing operations to cut down the market the stolen items were being sold to. Mahamba said efforts to clamp down on illegal scrapyards were ongoing. “Vandalism of bridges is one of the most difficult crimes to police. But we won’t lose the battle to criminals and remain determined to arrest those caught stealing and tracking down were they take the supplies.” Transport Department spokesperson Melitah Madiba said they'd look into installing temporary bridge rails as a contingency plan.