National Prosecuting Authority spokesperson Phindi Louw yesterday confirmed that a warrant for his arrest had been issued. She said he was due to hand himself over this morning at the Johannesburg Central police station and thereafter be taken to court. Louw said as it was a first appearance, the case would be postponed. Gauteng High Court, Pretoria, Judge Billy Mothle in October last year ruled that anti-apartheid activist Timol did not commit suicide, but was murdered. Timol was at the time interrogated by members of the then security branch on the 10th floor of the notorious John Vorster Square building in the Johannesburg CBD. Judge Mothle, during the reopening of Timol’s inquest, 46 years after his death, ruled that Timol was pushed out of the window of either the 10th floor or from the rooftop. The judge found that the then security branch police officers who interrogated him were collectively responsible for his death and should be held accountable. He said there was at this stage evidence implicating former officers Roderiques as well as Hans Gloy and Johannes van Niekerk, who had both since died. Roderiques is in his early 80s. The judge also said that former sergeant Neville Els on the face of it had a case to answer to regarding Timol’s death. Roderiques is the first to have received a warrant of arrest following the judgment. He will appear in the same court building in which he, 46 years ago, told an apartheid era magistrate presiding over Timol’s inquest that he saw the detainee commit suicide by jumping out of the window. When he was called to the witness stand last year, the elderly man stuck to his guns and once again insisted that it was suicide. Judge Mothle, however, rejected this and found that Roderiques had a case to answer to. Family member Imtiaz Cajee told the Pretoria News that this latest development was a milestone as more than nine months had lapsed since Judge Mothle’s ruling. "We as a family are grateful that Roderiques is finally appearing in a court of law. We appeal to him, as we have consistently done in the past, to make a full disclosure about my uncle’s death.” Cajee said the family was taking no pleasure from the fact that a man in his 80s had to appear in court. "We understand what transpired in 1971 during the war which unfolded in the country and the fact that my uncle and he were on opposite sides. “But the war is over. It is time for us to reconcile and move forward as a nation. This can only happen if he makes a full disclosure." Cajee said if Roderiques refused to do this, then it was inevitable that he had to face the full wrath of the law.