The girl has since obtained an interdict against the teenager and his mother, who she claimed were stalking her, among other bizzare actions. The pupil said she did not know the mother or son, who she claimed pitched up at her school out of the blue, and asked her to go with the boy to his matric farewell dance. The girl, only identified as M as she is under age, said that when she refused to engage with the strangers, they grabbed her by the arm and tried to drag her off with them. It was only thanks to the intervention of two teachers that she managed to escape their grasp. M’s father was later sent a message via WhatsApp accompanied by a picture of her, which read in part: “If I look lustfully upon you, I look lustfully upon God’s daughter, for I am certain that you are God’s daughter.” It’s not certain who wrote the letter, which extensively quotes passages from the Bible. The message also said: “God lends his daughter to me and together in the flesh our children are a gift to God.” The picture of her had the caption “Knock, knock. Who’s there. Open up because it’s my heart just for you.” This bizarre tale unfolded in court papers before the Gauteng High Court, Pretoria, where the young woman obtained an urgent interdict against the teenager and his mother. Acting Judge John Holland-Muter interdicted the teenager and his mother from contacting M in any manner - either by telephone, personal contact of social media. The boy was also interdicted from entering the prestige school where M is a pupil, and his mother was interdicted from assisting him in his attempts. Neither the teenager nor his mother defended the application. Their lawyer, in a letter sent to M’s legal team, said they would abide by the court’s decision. The teenager’s father, in a letter to M’s lawyer, said he discussed the application with his son. He said he understood why she was asking for the interdict. “This is a tragic case,” the father said, adding that he was grateful for the manner in which it was handled by the parents of M. Meanwhile M said in an affidavit before court that she was at school in April this year when the receptionist summoned her over the intercom to reception. When she got there a boy and his mother, unknown to her, were waiting to see her. When the teenager walked towards her and asked her to accompany him to his matric farewell event, she felt uncomfortable. “I asked him how he knew me and he replied ‘I know you from start to end. I am God and you are my ‘dissipel’ (Afrikaans for disciple)’. I was very afraid The mother moved closer to me The first respondent (the boy) grabbed my hand and pushed me on to a chair. The mother came to sit next to me, but did not say a word He repeatedly said he is the Church and God sent him to me.” M said at that stage the mother started to shiver. The boy got up and pulled her by the arm and told her to go with him. The mother also told her to accompany them. At that stage the receptionist - in a bid to send them away - told the boy M would send him a WhatsApp message with her answer regarding the matric farewell. “At this point he became aggressive and grabbed me by the throat. I managed to escape his grip. The receptionist told me to run to the office. When I turned around the first respondent (boy) was also in the office as he ran after me. A teacher restrained him and another escorted me out of the office to a classroom.” Meanwhile, it was stated that it had come to light the boy had been admitted to hospitals in the past for observation owing to a severe mental state. M said she lived in fear that they would again approach her and she had nightmares. “His infatuation with me is of great concern, and it feels like a threat to my safety the recent events in the news, especially the murder of two young schoolgirls, increased my fear.” Pretoria News