In celebration of Women’s Month which is due to start tomorrow, Chief of the South African National Defence Force (SANDF), Solly Shoke said the military was well over their prescribed 30% women intake. “We have passed the 30% mark. We value and appreciate our women and believe they are capable if not more than capable to do what men do,” he said. He said in some countries despite national policy and international programmes – such as the United Nations Development Programme – gender discrimination and inequality persist with certain countries performing worse than others. The army, through its history and its traditionally male values and ideology, is a perfect breeding ground for all these excesses – sexism and racism. In the SANDF for two centuries, women worked as nurses in the different medical corps. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  The South African Military Nursing Service was established in 1914 and became the first women’s service in the Union Defence Forces. In 1970, the former South African Defence Force Council decided to appoint women in the military, in order to release men for operational duties. The Army Women’s College in George was later established in 1971 to separately train white women for support units within the South African Defence Force. The participation of women in the armed forces changed significantly at the end of apartheid. In fact, in 1994, the SADF was amalgamated with the formerly independent Bantustan security forces: Umkhonto we Sizwe , PACs Azanian People’s Liberation Army (APLA) and the "self-protection units" of the Inkatha Freedom Party to form the SANDF. It was at this moment, following months of negotiations within the Joint Military Co-ordinating Committee, that the SANDF started recruiting a very small number of women into the military in April 1994.