The theme of the celebration, announced by the Nelson Mandela Foundation, prompts South Africans and others to take up #Action-
AgainstPoverty, inspire change and make every day a Mandela Day. So, it is not surprising that food collection and packaging dominate initiatives in which people take 67 minutes to make their contribution. Sun International has partnered with Minister of Social Development Susan Shabangu and is inviting the public to join in the packing of food for distribution to those in need. The event takes place throughout the day in the parking lot of the Time Square casino. Another food packing initiative is City Property’s, which set a challenge to staff to donate and pack meals to eventually number  100000 packs. Tomorrow they will spend time handing out meals in the Pretoria CBD, with the balance going to vulnerable children through the Rise Against Hunger network. Rise Against Hunger chief executive Saira Khan said that the organisation depended on passionate, active volunteers for meal-packing events such as these. Another food initiative is iLAB’s. They are a software quality assurance testing company that challenged staff in an “iCan Make a Difference” campaign to collect as many tins of food as possible. iLAB will join Meals on Wheels, which each year provides over 10 million meals to those in need, in a cook-a-thon tomorrow, and help distribute the meals. Spur Soshanguve, in partnership with Bravo Rhythmic Voices, has invited the children of Goitse  Modimo foster home and nurses at Maria Rantho Clinic to a fun day that will include food, gifts and entertainment. The GraySwan Charitable Trust’s initiative, Walk with a Purpose, provides shoes to children. Woodrock Animal Rescue has planned a lock-and-key project. People can get a padlock for the “bridge of commitment to animals” for R67. Dealing with the challenge of poverty and unemployment features in the to-do list this Mandela Day, as does education. Bikers for Mandela Day, started by Zelda la Grange, undertook their annual rally to help keep a girl child in school, the aim too of the Trek4Mandela which plans to summit Kilimanjaro tomorrow. Dr Nico de Klerk starts his marathon walk from the Union Buildings to Cape Town stopping along the way to impart his knowledge to 100 townships. The Employment Solutions for People with Disabilities has invited people to spend their 67 minutes of service time at Prinshof school for the visually impaired. It is a non-profit organisation that, among other things, facilitates employment opportunities for persons with disabilities. The Professional Educator’s Union, in collaboration with Hotel 224 in Pretoria, hosts a breakfast with disadvantaged pupils in and around Pretoria. Pupils will receive uniforms and attend a motivational talk. Mandela Day is also associated with practical projects, such as painting and fixing up facilities by those who can for those in need. Soshanguve Crossing Mall hosts a “fixa uppa” for shoppers. They have been invited to bring their old clothes and shoes to be mended for free. The Kitty and Puppy Haven in Erasmuskloof has called for help after a fire last month left them in need of food and blankets. The drop-off point is shop 18 in Castle Walk Centre. There are many other initiatives across the city, including lectures and the opening of the “Memories of Mandela” exhibition at Freedom Park. No matter how small your action, remember Mandela Day is about changing the world for the better, just as Nelson Mandela did every day.