The decision by the inquiry's presiding inspector, Phumudzo Maphaha, followed complaints submitted by legal representatives. They felt the department’s communication was prejudiced and not being impartial. The department had released a statement yesterday regarding the admission by contract manager and senior engineer Hein Pretorius that he accepted responsibility for the bridge's collapse. Legal teams felt that the media release and interviews conducted by department spokesperson Teboho Thejane had caused damage to Pretorius’s reputation following the cross-examination. Even though transcripts were provided regarding the admission, the legal teams felt the statements had taken what was said out of context. Maphaha said the matter had been raised with the department’s legal team for consultation. In his ruling, he indicated that the proceedings of the inquiry would continue. However, the department and Thejane would not be allowed to publish any statements or media releases until further notice was given by the legal team. “I want to take a decision that will not be unfair to any party," Maphaha said. "And I understand that the final decision will set a precedent to other cases in future. “On Monday when the inquiry resumes we will get feedback from the legal department and I will allow for debate if there is any before proceedings commence in the morning.” As the inquiry continued, Dr Roger Barker, the chief engineer at the time for Murray & Roberts, submitted his statement and highlighted his hesitation at being cross-examined. He said: “These people get it so wrong.” With Barker’s cross-examination under way, the engineer was adamant that his involvement with the bridge only went as far as the design for the strip footings to the temporary works structure. And for his part in the project, he had not designed the temporary works, neither was he asked to check or review the designs submitted, he saidd. “I deny any discussions suggesting that I was appointed to assume responsibility for the design, inspection and approval of the temporary works,” read his statement. The Grayston Drive pedestrian and cyclist structural bridge collapse inquiry is looking into possible contraventions of the Occupational Health and Safety Act 85 of 1993 and its regulations following the uncontrolled collapse of the M1/Grayston temporary structure. The inquiry was set up by the Department of Labour following the incident on October 14, 2015, which led to the deaths of two people as well as injury to 19 persons. The proceedings will continue on Monday.