The DA stood alone in South Africa for running a candidate list process which was transparent. It sought to attract only the best candidates across the country, DA federal council chair James Selfe said. The selection process was rigorous to ensure that the pool from which members of provincial legislatures, Members of Parliament, and premier candidates were picked from was extensive and had people dedicated to the democratic project. “We are the only party that runs a process as transparent as this. “As we head towards the 2019 election campaign, the DA will field candidates selected by selection panels made up of members of the federal executive and provincial executives," Selfe said. “By this past Friday we'd received 31 applications from premier candidates across the country. These nominees will appear before selection panels in their respective provinces and a candidate will be selected. “The DA prides itself about this competitive process because our aim is to end up with candidates who will take our offer to the voters and represent their interests,” Selfe said. Premier candidates were: Gauteng - Solly Tshepiso Msimanga, Stanford Makashule Gana, Wendy Alexander, Sandy Kgaogelo (Khathutshelo) Mbuvha, Rachel Katlego Mathebe, Ghaleb Cachalia, Johannes Page, Karabo Grace Tledima and Refiloe Ntsekhe. Western Cape - Fazloodien Abrahams, Bonginkosi Success Madikizela, David Maynier, Kelly Baloyi, Jacobus MacFarlane, Alan Winde and Michael Mack. North West - Sandy Kgaogelo (Khathutshelo) Mbuvha, Tutu Faleni, Thabo Selepe, Patrick Sesana, and Karabo Grace Tledima. KwaZulu-Natal - Zwakele Maxwell Mncwango and Zoe Moore. Northern Cape - Andrew Louw. Limpopo - Sandy Kgaogelo (Khathutshelo) Mbuvha, Tshedza Tshivhasa Sikhwari, Jacobus Frederik Smalle, and Rembuluwani Thelma Marole. Free State - Coreen Malherbe and Semakaleng Patricia Kopane. Eastern Cape - Mzwenqaba Bhanga. “The country needs total change. We are faced with rampant crime and corruption and a growing number of unemployed South Africans, the DA is the only organisation that can make the difference needed. “As the only party that has consistently grown every election cycle we remain resolute in governing the Western Cape and becoming the largest party in the Northern Cape and Gauteng to deliver desperately needed change." - African News Agency (ANA)