Pretoria - A Mozambican citizen who raped four young girls aged 7 to 15 was not only a disgrace to his family and the community, but also to all men.Judge J Ratshivumo, sitting in the Gauteng High Court, Pretoria, said he could not understand how Raul Balele, 47, a father of five, preyed on young children while he had a wife and girlfriends of his own. He then sentenced him to eight life terms. “In light of the deeds of the accused, I wish children would learn not to trust anyone,” the judge said. Balele received seven life sentences for rape and one for child trafficking. A 15-year-old relative was, according to Balele, “sold” to him by her mother in Mozambique for R1500. He claimed the teenager, with whom he had a child, willingly stayed with him as his wife and that they had consensual sex. The girl, however, testified she was brought to South Africa from Mozambique and crossed borders without any documentation. She said Balele eventually met up with her in Brits and took her to his home. She was excited when he asked her to come to South Africa to cook for him and he promised to pay her. But once here he kept her locked up in the house and didn’t allow her to contact her family or speak to the neighbours. He even accompanied her to the toilet outside the house. The young girl managed to escape and she called the police, but by this time she was pregnant with his child. She wanted an abortion but Balele refused permission. The judge said in light of what he had done to her he could have at least allowed her to have an abortion. Now the girl would have to live with the consequences of what had happened to her for the rest of her life, he said. His actions also caused a rift in the family, who were supported by Balele in Mozambique. Judge Ratshivumo said he wished he could sit down with them and explain to them that the trauma caused to young children weighed much heavier than not having bread on the table. It emerged that a few months prior to importing himself a child bride, Balele raped the 11-year-old daughter of his then girlfriend. The child’s mother caught him red-handed on top of her. This was not the first time she was raped by him. After the mother laid charges, two of the child’s friends, aged 7 and 9, also reported that they, too, were raped by him when they came to play at their friend’s house. Balele at the time escaped from the police and they could not locate him. It was only after the 15-year-old reported her ordeal that he was arrested. The judge remarked that Balele’s lust for small children remained a mystery and said he showed no remorse for what he had done. Instead he tried to convince the court that if he was in Mozambique he would not have faced any charges as it was common practice there to have sexual relations with children. But the judge said this was not true, as Mozambique held the same values when it came to children’s rights as South Africa. He said the word had to spread that those who exploited children sexually “will go to jail for life”. Pretoria News