Doman, an accomplished cricketer in his own right, had been the long-time cricket writer for the Cape Argus and Independent Media, and more recently had held positions as the Cape Argus sports editor and Cape sports co-ordinator for Independent Media. In a statement, Independent Media said Doman had suffered from diabetes for many years and was admitted to hospital last week, where his condition rapidly worsened. His brother, Anthony, confirmed his passing yesterday morning. Doman was an accomplished provincial cricketer who, with the likes of non-racial sports icon Saait Magiet, was a member of the Western Province cricket board team, who were the 1979/80 Howa Bowl champions. Head of Independent Media sport, Jermaine Craig, described Doman as a fine journalist who led Independent Media’s cricket coverage. He was first a news reporter for the Cape Herald, and later became a cricket writer and sports editor for the Cape Argus. “He came from a proud lineage of journalists who left an indelible mark on our company, with his father Ted Doman a revered former Cape Herald editor,” Craig said. “As head of our Cape region, and as a senior member of our Independent Media sports leadership team, Michael was in cricket parlance ‘a safe pair of hands’ in the slip cordon in an industry, where the ball was often flying off the edges. “His professionalism, humility, calm demeanour and silent but strong leadership will be missed and we extend our sincere condolences to his family.” The Cape Argus tweeted: “Today, we are saddened to announce the passing of a gentle soul, a legendary sportsman, a revered wordsmith, a colleague and friend, Michael Doman.” Sports journalist and colleague Ashfak Mohamed tweeted: “Just heard about the passing of a giant of non-racial sport and a colleague, Michael Doman. "I spoke to him last week about a pic of the 1979/80 WP Howa Bowl champions, in which he sat next to Saait Magiet. In true Michael fashion, he just smiled. RIP.” And former Cape Argus editor Gasant Abarder also paid tribute on Twitter, saying: “Tragic news this morning with the passing of @TheCapeArgus sports editor and former cricket writer, Michael Doman. A gentleman, scholar, confidant. "A man with a lovely disposition who always had my back as editor. You will be missed. Rest in peace!” Lindiz van Zilla, editor of the African News Agency (ANA), who worked alongside Doman in the Cape Argus sports department, said the news of his death was a huge shock. “Mikey was the consumate professional, a mentor to many, a wonderful colleague, and a wordsmith par excellence,” Van Zilla said. He is survived by his wife Lorelle Bell and three sons.