Gaddafi became an overnight hit after appearing on the popular dating television programme Date my Family last Sunday. Traditionally, bachelors and bachelorettes seeking “love” on the show are grilled and mocked on Twitter, but Gaddafi, who was born with albinism, was an instant charm and sparked a different discourse, that both entertained and educated viewers. “Honestly, I wasn't doing it for a date. I was doing it for all those living with albinism, those that are constantly laughed at, or mocked... those who are bullied and even killed for the pigment of their skin. “I took it upon myself to be the liberator,” the 24-year-old said. He said all those years of stares and unkind comments had given him a thick skin, and the courage to build up his confidence. “At a very young age I learnt how to turn a negative into a positive picture. It was my coping mechanism,” he recalled. But before he adopted this coping mechanism, he said he was angry and carried stones to throw at people who insulted him. Now, instead of stones, he uses words and actions to change perceptions. His sense of style, character, and a positive personality were among the things that viewers noticed and complimented him during the show, and for days afterwards. “I don't know why people assume that because I am living with albinism I would not be confident. After all, it is just a condition, it doesn't change the man I am. I can still be an educated, stylish and talented man,” he said. The Limpopo-born poet, who is now based in the capital city, said that even in the 21st century, with all the information at our fingertips, people were still oblivious to people living with albinism. The first sign that Gaddafi meant business was when he gave his date on the show a book on the condition called albinism because he saw that she didn't totally understand the condition or the use of the word albino. Asked about a second date: He jokingly replied: “We will just be friends. “There are a lot of things that need to be brought into the spotlight, and my being on the show was bound to do that,” he said. The episode even had Refilwe Modiselle, one of the most popular models living with albinism in South Africa, speaking out about the term “albino” and how it was problematic because of the stigma created around it. Gaddafi said he broke myths about albinism daily just by being who he was. “I wanted to say to them: 'look, this is just a condition I live with. It doesn't limit my potential or define me at all' as a human being. “However, we cannot ignore the fact that people living with albinism are going through a tough time. We are being killed because people don't understand and they need to be educated.” In South Africa, an estimated one in 4000 people is born with albinism, compared with about one in 20000 worldwide, according to the Albinism Society of SA. Apart from eye problems that can lead to blindness and a high vulnerability to skin cancer, people with albinism also face discrimination and stigma. In response to the widespread disappearances and killing of people with albinism in Tanzania, Burundi and other East and Central African countries, the UN officially declared albinos “persons with disabilities” in 2008. In East Africa, people with albinism are believed by some to have mystical power, putting them at risk of abduction and mutilation. Body parts are used in witchcraft, or buried under businesses, supposedly to bring wealth. One of the myths that exist in South Africa is that people with albinism do not die, they simply disappear. Derogatory words are also sometimes used to refer to people with albinism. Gaddafi, who has an honours degree in Information Science, was recently made the ambassador of Albinism Society of SA and he was also the face of a local clothing brand called YOU! He says he plans to occupy the radio and television spaces, where, he believes, he can effectively inform people and change the perceptions around albinism.