They are particularly vigilant around a small ledge high up on the sheer face of the cliff. Perched on this ledge is the nest that protects their fragile young chick: always chirping, always hungry, crying out for the food it needs to grow its feathers and take to the air. Throughout the morning, a crow attempts to encroach on the nest, evoking the defensive instincts of the eagles, and they swoop down to chase the crow away. The dramatic aerial tussle between the eagles and the crow is clearly visible to visitors strolling through the Walter Sisulu National Botanical Garden, in the heart of the West Rand, on this chilly July morning. It’s a 300-hectare paradise, bordered by the high cliffs on one side and busy suburban streets on the other. Here, the people of Johannesburg can take a break from their city lives and savour a precious natural heritage in quiet seclusion. They can enjoy 26 hectares of indigenous South African plants, including cycads, succulents, ferns and trees, depicting the wide variety of plant life that contributes to making South Africa the third most biodiverse country in the world. Tucked away in a corner of the garden's restaurant, diners can see the eagles feeding their chick, thanks to a telescope and camera trained on the nest. It's still a tiny white speck of feathers, but will grow into a big bold bird with the constant attention of its parents. The eagle chick grabs the attention of visitors immediately, but there is so much more to see and experience in the garden. Among the many recreational facilities is a garden designed to demonstrate how water should be used wisely, another to educate children, and a wetland area.  This botanical garden is one of 11 managed by the South African National Biodiversity Institute. It has been voted the best place to get back to nature in Gauteng, and is renowned as one of the best botanical gardens in the world. To enhance its stature as a national asset, the Department of Tourism installed a bust of Walter Sisulu at the entrance, surrounded by an exciting water feature with aquatic plants. I had come here with Minister Edna Molewa to unveil the bust of Tata Sisulu, together with family members Elinor and Max Sisulu. The installation also conveys information about the life of the Sisulu family and their enormous contribution to bringing democracy to our country, freedom to our nation, and a renewed sense of pride to our people. By relating the story of Walter and Albertina Sisulu, right here in the garden they both loved to visit, we have brought together our natural heritage and our cultural legacy. This is what turns every visit to this garden into an extraordinary, meaningful experience. Comrades Walter and Albertina Sisulu would have wanted us to do more than simply come here, launch the bust under the spotlight of media, and go home. In keeping with their philosophy of continual activism for the benefit of others, they would have expected us to do something positive to improve the lives of those living here. We invited people from nearby communities and sat down to listen to their concerns. The surrounding suburb of Roodepoort is a microcosm of South Africa in many ways. The wealthy and the poor live side-by-side. Many people who had lived in this area for most of their lives were visiting the garden for the very first time. A painting of a rare orchid was presented to Elinor and Max. This rare species, Brachycorythis conica subsp. Transvaalensis, has now been named the Albertina Sisulu Orchid. There are only about 120 plants of this species remaining on the planet, and they are found in only one place - a ridge adjacent to the gardens, which has been earmarked for a housing development. The potential for conflict between environmentalists and housing developers was resolved when the mayor of Mogale City announced that the municipality would now seek alternate land to build the houses. The conservationists were delighted that the orchid bearing Mama Sisulu’s name had been saved from extinction. The community were comforted that houses would be built elsewhere. As members of the community raised their concerns, the government and municipal officials responded with what would be done to resolve them. This is what Albertina and Walter Sisulu would have wanted: that the government leaders not only go into communities and listen to people, but that they go back to their offices and actually do something about it. This is the best way in which we can all honour the memory and perpetuate the legacy of our leaders. Like the pair of eagles circling the sky to guard their nest, the spirit of Albertina and Walter Sisulu will always hover protectively over our young democracy, feeding it with their enduring values of love and compassion for others. In their memory we must continue to fend off the crows of corruption, dishonesty and carelessness towards others, which threaten to dislodge the cosy nest we are building for all our people. In their memory, we must protect all the rare flowers that have blossomed from our liberation, preserve the ideals that all our Struggle stalwarts stood for, and fulfil all the aspirations of our people. And, in their memory, we must continue to work together, the government and communities, to find solutions for this generation, while protecting our precious planet for future generations.