This despite the bid to restore electricity to several suburbs being delayed yesterday by thieves trying to steal cables. For nine days in a row, City workers worked tirelessly to fix the Wapadrand substation, which exploded on July 10. Areas such as Equestria, Silver Lakes, Wapadrand, Faerie Glen and Olympus were plunged into darkness after the substation was engulfed in flames because of a suspected cable fault. City manager Dr Moeketsi Mosola said the teams were on duty from early yesterday morning finalising switching on the remainder of Equestria, as half of the suburb was still without power. From 1.56am, the teams finished the repair work to the damaged cables on the corner of Solomon Mahlangu Drive and Lynnwood Road. The cables had, according to Mosola, been damaged by a contractor working on the intersection. Mosola thanked the teams for their selflessness, commitment and dedication to a task that would normally have taken six months. “The teams started Nelson Mandela Day a week in advance these teams went beyond the call of duty by extraordinarily performing the miracle of rebuilding a substation within a week. “Finally, we have reached the end of this painful period, and through the course of this morning all the consumers will be switched back on," Mosola said. "This experience has helped us to discover the depth of expertise, experience, skill and knowledge resident in our team of technicians and electricians. We have set a trend which generations after us will like to emulate.” Mosola also expressed his gratitude to the residents and businesses in the affected areas for their understanding and patience, some of whom he added had shown the teams kindness in generously providing food and refreshments. With regards to allegations circulating on social media of “sabotage” following yesterday’s setback, City spokesperson Selby Bokaba said it could not say whether “foul play” was a factor. Bokaba added, however, there was something “fishy” and suspicious that thieves would attempt to steal cables knowing full well the City was trying to restore electricity. The team also found circuit breakers in a mini-substation at Stellenberg/Vergelegen switched off by an unknown person. Meter boxes were also vandalised.