And the National Zoological Garden gave her that opportunity on Saturday, when they joined other countries in celebrating the first World Chimpanzee Day, aimed at raising awareness about the species. The day was also aimed at drawing attention to the habitat loss that these magnificent apes experienced, as well as wildlife trafficking, disease and the bushmeat trade. In keeping with the theme about raising awareness of chimps in the wild, the city zoo hosted 100 children from the Moepathustse Orphanage in Stinkwater, as well as children from the Ga-Rankwuwa Rearabilwe Child and Youth Centre, who came to see the chimps. The zoo has two male teenage chimpanzees, 18-year-old Yoran and Absalom, 16, donated by different zoos in Israel. The children experienced an interesting environmental enrichment with Yaron and Absalom while learning about the fascinating animals. Some children were fascinated; others scared, with some seeing the massive creatures for the first time. However, they were all stunned when both chimps had to open boxes full of treats before indulging in jelly beans and all things sugary to sustain them through the day. The two grabbed the colourful boxes placed in their enclosure and went into hiding, carefully opening the boxes and then eating. Children were also surprised to learn that chimps ate food human beings ate, like low fat yoghurt, peanut butter sandwiches, vegetables and fruits, to name a few. Subsequent to the “enrichment” experience, games and educational activities were in store for the children, including a placard game with different expressions that chimpanzees made, whose meaning they had to guess. The zoo’s education officer, Leavy Tau, told children: “Chimpanzees do things that we do as human beings. They experience fear the same way we do so all these other expressions that they make are the same as ours. When we talk about cousins in terms of the animal kingdom, that is what we are referring to. “We learnt that chimpanzees can also use tools. If they find a termite nest they would crack a hole and use a stick to get those termites, so they know to use tools just as much as you and I,” he said. Tau said the games allowed kids to think critically before making informed decisions. “We are focusing on allowing kids to think before making any move and to think beyond what they can see because in that way they can be responsible, just like chimpanzees.” He said chimpanzees were highly endangered - a century ago there were 1-2million chimps in 25 countries; today there are as few as 350000 wild chimps in African continent.