He spoke in the council at a July 18 function organised by African States and the United Nations to mark Nelson Mandela Day, on the 100th anniversary of his birth, quoting how Madiba had said he fought against white and black domination. Justice Mogoeng said the world should not confine itself “to the easy task of condemning African leaders for their corruption to the exclusion of the business sector partnering with these government leaders in corrupting Africa”. Until that happens, “we are not going to find a solution to the challenges that confront Africa”, he said. UN secretary-general António Guterres, who met Mandela several times, said in a video message that Madiba “stands today as a beacon for peace, forgiveness, humility, integrity, passion, respect and service”. Justice Mogoeng said Africa was richly endowed with mineral and natural resources with arable lands that can feed itself and the world. “The struggle of African people to which Nelson Mandela dedicated his life was against indignity, marginalisation, crass, polished and sub-conscious racism and prejudice. “It was the struggle against land dispossession, economic exploitation, sustained impoverishment, and the institutionalisation of injustice.” Justice Mogoeng said a lot of sympathy and aid had come to African people, which was appreciated. “Why is it then that when we talk about migration, African people come to mind?” He noted Africans risked their lives to cross oceans. But he asked, “Where are the riches of Africa going to? Who are the beneficiaries? What are they doing to undo the harm caused to Africa? “It is about time that as we name and shame those African leaders who are corrupt, we equally name and shame the multinational companies that have benefited of the wealth of Africa for far too long.” South African’s ambassador to the UN in Geneva, Nozipho Joyce Mxakato-Diseko, said if Madiba were around today he would have seen the instruments of multilateralism can be used to “withstand the tide of populism”.