He was addressing the media at The Capital Hotel, Menlyn Maine, ahead of the launch of the greatest choir festival in the world in the city last night. “We are going to host a world-class choir festival. We are not only going to make this about singing, but visitors from other countries should experience what South Africa is really made of. “The 10th World Choir Games came at the right time as it is the best way to celebrate the centenary of Nelson Mandela,” he said. Msimanga encouraged visitors to visit the townships and heritage sites in the city to make their time here more than just about the choirs. Interkultur and World Choir Games president Günter Titsch said they chose to celebrate the 10th anniversary of the event - billed as the World Cup of Choral Music - in the country because many choirs from South Africa had taken part in the competition over the years. It is the first time the event is being staged in Africa. “With South African choirs, it was not only about the singing, but the dancing and rhythm; and everyone could feel the oneness they brought to the competition. “It was also that quality that is impressive about the South African choirs. We have a world-ranking list of about 1000 choirs and at number one is the Stellenbosch University choir,” Titsch said. He was impressed with the 155 South African choirs that will be taking part in the event, he added, and could not wait to see what all the participants had to offer. “I am very impressed to see that China has the second-largest representation with 37 choirs. And not everyone is playing soccer in Russia; we have 10 of their choirs,” he said. Initially the competition had 27 categories, but Titsch said there was now a 28th category in which any choir could participate, regardless of size, age or style of singing. Performances will take place at various venues, including the University of Pretoria’s Aula Theatre, the South African State Theatre, Pretoria Boys High’s Abernethy Hall, Unisa’s ZK Matthews Great Hall and the NG Kerk Universiteits-
oord. Tickets are available at Nuticket. In addition, there are Friendship Concerts taking place across the city. For more information, visit Tshwane2018.org Sun Arena was abuzz as the choirs attended the opening ceremony. Each group entered the venue with a song. Each group arrived carrying the flag of their countries. There are 62 countries taking part in the competition. See Page 4