The organisation marched to the Union Buildings yesterday, demanding that the government reconsider its decision to downgrade the status of the South African embassy in Israel. It had hoped to gather at Freedom Park for a prayer session, but permission for the event was withdrawn last week. Its spokesperson, Bafana Modise, said the organisation knew nothing about the bomb scare. “We had nothing to do with it. All I know is that we were denied access to gather and pray there (Freedom Park), hence we decided to look for an alternative venue. We are peaceful people and we do not have anything to do with bombs.” By late yesterday, the SAPS bomb disposal unit had not found a bomb nor traces of explosives. It was confirmed that police were investigating the possibility that attempts were made to create instability at Freedom Park and in Pretoria in general. The drama unfolded just after 8am, when a man claimed in phone calls that there were bombs at Freedom Park. Visitors were turned away and staff and cars removed as members of the bomb unit combed the facility. Freedom Park chief executive Jane Mufamadi said they had received three phone calls from a man, who said multiple bombs had been planted inside the premises. Mufamadi said they immediately activated their emergency protocols; everyone inside the premises, from visitors to staff members, had to be evacuated. “Luckily we know our fire and bomb drills,” she said. But despite the drills, Mufamadi said the majority of people were terrified and started to panic as they trodded the thin line between practise and reality. In no time, vehicles ferrying visitors and those belonging to staff were parked outside. Only staff members who were on foot were allowed into the facility. A security guard at the gate told the Pretoria News that they were under strict instructions not to let any vehicle inside, except for those of the police. Residents of Salvokop at the foot of the heritage site came out in their numbers to watch the commotion. They stared in shock as the bomb squad entered Freedom Park to look for and retrieve the “bombs”. Residents who did not want to be named said they feared for their lives as they lived close to the site. “What if there is a real bomb that is going to explode? Crimes have happened and so have robberies, but we have never had an incident of this sort,” a resident said. See Page 2