Makhura was addressing a packed tent at Kanana about the poor quality of water in Hammanskraal, specifically water from the Rooiwal waste-water treatment plant. “I know you want the mayor as in yesterday, because he has been hiding. I promise to drag him here next week, whether he likes it or not. “He must take accountability and stop hiding behind small meetings in his offices,” he told the residents. "I saw members of the municipality on TV saying that the water is clean. If that is the case, why don’t you drink it, then?” Makhura was accompanied by his cabinet members, including sport and recreation MEC Faith Mazibuko and community safety MEC Sizakele Nkosi-Malobane. After a closed meeting that started at noon at the Tshwane regional offices, they visited the Rooiwal plant, spending just under an hour circling and inspecting the facility and equipment. Employees at the facility also shared their frustrations and concerns with Makhura. One of the main problems raised was the old and dilapidated infrastructure, which they said was not cleaning the water to its full capacity. “I want to be honest with you, the water is filthy. I’m so sorry that you have to drink this dirty water, and I don’t blame you for marching and closing down the streets last week,” he told the residents. The problem of dirty water, which has reportedly caused sickness in the area, has been ongoing for almost 10 years, according to residents. Makhura said in addition to dragging Msimanga to the area next week, he would also be accompanied by the Minister of Water and Sanitation, Gugile Nkwinti, to give a more concrete solution. Last month, residents complained they had suffered gastric ailments after drinking water, prompting Tshwane health officials to investigate claims of a cholera outbreak. However, following tests, no traces of cholera were found. Hammanskraal has a population of 21345, with a total of 6665 households. Access to piped water for the population is at 82.9%, while 14.2% receive their water from tankers. Tsholofelo Matsilane, who has been living in Temba for 22 years, said: “We feel left out. "While everyone has been drinking pure clean water, we have for the past decade bathed, quenched our thirst and cleaned with dirty water. "Not even pigs are treated like we are being treated." Residents said the water had foam and a bad smell when boiled, while others said they had been forced to buy bottled water to avoid risking their health. The plant has been the alleged cause of pollution in the Apies River with sludge, faeces and other objects flowing into the river. Most of the works are at a standstill, with a vast amount of money required to address all the issues. Previously, the MMC for utility services, Darryl Moss, announced that the tender for dredging the plant had closed. It was now in the process of adjudication.