According to market research and consulting firm Ipsos, the party’s support has rocketed to 60% since Ramaphosa took over from Jacob Zuma. This came as no surprise as another Ipsos poll found in May that almost two-thirds (63%) of voters believed the country was going in the right direction under Ramaphosa. In its latest Pulse of the People study, Ipsos said out of 3000 randomly selected South Africans, 60% supported the ANC. The DA  (13%) came second and EFF third (7%). The survey also found the ANC (26%) and the DA (28%) were neck and neck in the Western Cape. Mari Harris, Ipsos director of public affairs, said it appeared South Africans were moving past the era of the ANC led by Zuma. The Ipsos report around this time last year showed ANC support at 45%. “The Ramaphosa factor is big because suddenly there is a leader people trust and can look up to. Our results after Cyril’s 100 days show a lot of trust expressed in the new president and people are willing to give him a chance,” Harris said. Antonia Squara, research manager at Ipsos, said that when they conducted the same survey last year, the country was a bit concerned about the leadership and future. “The results were quite negative all round regarding all aspects of living in South Africa. But, things changed as people were now generally happy. Ramaphoria has impacted on South Africans. We are a lot more positive.” The survey results were released days after Ramaphosa hit out at his critics who viewed him as weak and indecisive. Last week, Ramaphosa was in the Middle East on an investment drive to raise $100 billion (R1.33 trillion) in the next five years. Political analyst Professor Somadoda Fikeni, said the average person might have been impressed as Ramaphosa - unlike Zuma - was not limping from one crisis to the other. “They may have seen his (Ramaphosa's) efforts to build social cohesion in a very difficult moment. They realise he is not  the cause of some of the negative things unfolding and that he is making an effort,” Fikeni said. He viewed the survey as just some of the emerging trends and said it could not be used as a prediction of the outcome of the 2019 elections. “Parties like the ANC tend to be stronger towards the end of the (election) campaign, having experienced all sorts of problems and are able to pick up in the last three months,” Fikeni added. Squara said the election in the Western Cape could be very interesting. “The DA has been having internal issues. There has been a lot of negative press around them in recent times. It makes people quite a bit uncertain so there are various factors in the ANC getting stronger.” The survey was conducted while the DA was embroiled in infighting with City of Cape Town mayor Patricia de Lille. “Whether that will reflect in actual polls, we cannot say,” Squara added. DA spokesperson Solly Malatsi said: “Everything we are doing is to make sure that we retain the Western Cape and become the majority party in Gauteng and the Northern Cape.” ANC provincial spokesperson Yonela Diko said the survey results were in line with their own research and other research by academics. Diko credited the combination of Ramaphoria and the perception of the DA because of its internal squabbles around the handling of the removal of De Lille and other mayors. He said their election machinery has been oiled to ensure they consolidate the gain. “We brought in Rasool (former Western Cape premier, and current ANC election head Ebrahim Rasool) who has a history of winning and governance. “Many people who used to be disillusioned within the ANC are part of election structures,” Diko said.