The World Choir Games is the world’s biggest choral competition and is based on Olympic ideals. From July 4 to 14 it was hosted in Africa for the first time. The city enjoyed more than 50 concerts and over 400 competition performances from the 300 participating choirs. Performers lived up to the theme of Various voices, One harmony, and took their songs to all parts of the city including the townships. Just as the opening ceremony at the Sun Arena, Time Square, was abuzz with the excitement of the participants, the closing ceremony on Saturday also dazzled. Performers filled up the Arena and joined in the singing and dancing. Local artists also did not disappoint as they performed poetry, songs and dance routines. Performances focused on the spiritual, giving visitors a taste of what it was like to be a South African on a Sunday. Speaking with pride, Executive Mayor Solly Msimanga said: “We promised a world class event and we sure did not disappoint. We have seen friendships being developed, competitions take place and we never heard anything negative throughout this competition.” Msimanga said that hosting the Interkultur World Choir Games had been an honour, especially while the country was celebrating the centenary of the birth of Nelson Mandela. “I need to add that we have created a legacy with the Mayoral Legacy Concert where we were able to give blankets and toiletries among other things to hundreds of people in need. That was achieved through donations made by everyone who attended the concert and we are thankful for that,” he said. Msimanga added that he was happy to learn that there were international visitors who were not immediately leaving the country as they still wanted to visit some of the places in the city - and that included experiencing the chisanyama in Soshanguve. Interkultur and World Choir Games president Günter Titsch said he was proud of South Africa for having hosted a successful World Choir Games festival. He said the participation by this country’s choirs was amazing. There were a total of 162 South African choirs which participated in the choir festival and 76 of these choirs received medal diplomas. As a result of this, South Africa ranked first on the ranking list of medals for the 10th World Choir Games festival. Also, the games awarded 26 champions in all categories and seven of the champions were from South Africa, Titsch said. Following South Africa was China with 25 medals, Russia with 17, the US with 15 and Germany with 9 medals. Titsch said all the international visitors who attended the festival, performers, supporters and adjudicators confirmed that this was an enormous event which was hosted excellently by the country. The closing ceremony included lowering the World Choir Games flag and handing it over to the next hosts being Flanders, Belgium, for the 11th World Choir Games 2020.