Culture Minister Vira Rojpochanarat said he would propose at next week’s cabinet meeting that a special committee be established to oversee the production of films, documentaries and videos related to the experiences of the 12 boys and their coach who were trapped in a cave for almost three weeks. The rescue, carried out successfully against high odds, was a rare moment of uplifting news from Thailand, which has been mired in political conflict and heavy-handed military rule for more than a decade. The rescue allowed the government of Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha, who has been criticised for political manoeuvring to stay in power after elections planned for next year, to share in some glory. Thailand Film Office regulates the production of films shot in Thailand by foreign companies, including vetting scripts and issuing permits, but Vira said the committee would oversee content, licensing and the protection of privacy of the team and their families. Vira, speaking after a film board meeting on Thursday chaired by Deputy Prime Minister Wissanu Krea-ngam, said five foreign film production companies had shown interest in making a movie or documentary about the cave rescue and some had already been on location. Thai film producers have also shown interest but have not yet contacted the government, Vira said. The boys and coach of the Wild Boars soccer team were released from hospital on Wednesday and at a news conference described how they got trapped in the cave, and after 10 days cut off from the outside world, were astonished to see two British divers rising from muddy waters and assuring them work was under way to rescue them. The Wild Boars coach, Ekaphol Chantawong, revealed at the press conference that the boys had dug tunnels of up to 4m in an attempt to find a way out. Contrary to earlier reports, almost all the boys can swim and they dived into the pools, testing how deep the water was to judge whether it would be possible to swim out. However Ekaphol said some were not strong swimmers and as it got darker in the cave, he realised it would be too difficult for the team to leave, so he took them deeper into a place where they could rest for the night, hoping the water level would drop by the morning. Adul, 14, the only member of the team who spoke English, described the “miracle moment” when he heard the two British divers emerge from the darkness and call for the boys. After 10 days trapped in the cave with no food, it was the first sign that they would be rescued. They also revealed that the eventual decision about who should leave the cave first was not based on strength, but decided by the boys themselves. It was based on who lived furthest away from the cave and therefore would have the longest cycle back home. “This has all the right elements,” Vira said. “If you talk about drama associated with film-making, it has everything loss as well as jubilation. The content and story it has for film-making is very complete. Even if you don't create additional drama, these events had every flavour.” Several murals and sculptures have already been commissioned to mark the epic cave adventure. Many focus on Saman Gunan, a former Thai navy SEAL who volunteered to help with the rescue effort and died while diving on a mission to supply the cave with oxygen tanks essential to helping the boys escape. Saman is being treated as a national hero. - AP