The hotel, on Burnett Street, has added a whole new building to the tune of R120million. The construction brings an entire new building to the hotel property, and incorporates a number of new amenities for guests to enjoy. One particular addition that has had tongues wagging is the newly opened Africa Restaurant and Bar that pays homage to the country’s culture and cuisine. One can’t help but drool at the mouth-watering menu. The restaurant serves a different dish daily - one starch (samp, pap or dumpling) and one meat (chicken feet, cow heels, pork trotters, mogodu, chicken gizzards and chicken livers), served out of traditional black African pots. And if you think that’s not impressive, there’s live jazz entertainment every Friday evening performing while you devour your grub. The opening of the restaurant coincided with the World Choir Games held in Pretoria a few weeks ago, and the visiting Chinese choir that slept at the hotel had a field trip trying out African cuisine. Of particular interest to them was “Mogodu”. One by one they tried the delicacy. Some stuffed their faces while some only took a small bite and then politely refused to indulge. According to Volker Heiden, vice-president of Protea Hotels by Marriott in the Middle East and Africa, they have seen significant growth in Pretoria, which has created demand for greater accommodation. “This is particularly true of Hatfield, a popular location for both business and residential reasons. Its location near the University of Pretoria, the Loftus Versfeld Stadium, the city centre and the many embassies, makes this a suburb with plenty of traveller traffic,” Heiden said. The hotel’s location is particularly accessible to travellers - just a 35-minute drive from OR Tambo International Airport and equally close to Lanseria International Airport. It is also within walking distance of the Hatfield Gautrain Station. After adding 85 bedrooms, the hotel now boasts a total of 204 bedrooms. Other new features are conference rooms, a gym and a games room. The conference facilities allow for the hotel to host up to 220 delegates. “With this new building, the hotel has become even more attractive to both leisure and business travellers,” explains Danny Bryer, area director for sales, marketing and revenue management at Protea Hotels by Marriott and African Pride Hotels. “Not many people realise how significant the city of Pretoria is in terms of foreign representatives, such as embassies and consulates. “In fact, after Washington DC, it is the location of the second most foreign representative bodies, and many of them are to be found in Hatfield. This is bound to continue to grow as a significant source of the hotel’s business,” he said. The opening of the new building will hopefully bring additional growth to the developing city of Pretoria. Protea Hotels by Marriott is one of the most widely recognised hospitality brands in Africa, with nearly 100 hotels across nine countries including South Africa, Zambia, Nigeria, Namibia, Ghana, Tanzania, Uganda, Malawi and Algeria. Recognising the environmental toll of single use plastic, Protea Hotels by Marriott has announced that it will replace plastic straws with biodegradable straws in all of its hotels across Sub-Saharan Africa.