The inaugural South African edition of the festival - has a stunning line-up including Beyoncé, alongside Jay-Z, Pharrell Williams, Chris Martin, Ed Sheeran, Eddie Vedder and Usher as well as African heavyweights Tiwa Savage, D’Banj, Femi Kuti, Wizkid, Cassper Nyovest and Sho Madjozi. Global Citizens earn entry to the concert by taking action on health and nutrition, education, gender equality, water and sanitation, and the criminalisation of poverty. They sign up now on www.globalcitizen.org.za in a campaign which aims to end extreme poverty by 2030 and take a stand for women and girls. The “Mandela 100” campaign seeks to mobilise $1billion (R13.4bn) in new commitments for the world’s most marginalised people, with $500m set to impact the lives of 20million women and girls worldwide,” according to the website. And the more one does, the higher the points scored and greater chance to earn tickets for the festival, Mandela 100 at FNB stadium, the first of its kind in the country. Founder of Global Citizen Hugh Evans said he was inspired by the Mandela centenary initiatives. He was joined for the launch by a panel which included Patrice Motsepe, Dr Precious Moloi-Motsepe, senior cabinet minister Jeff Radebe, supermodel Naomi Campbell, Tsonga artist Sho Madjozi, Nigerian superstar Tiwa Savage and Kweku Mandela. “Mandela said poverty was not natural and can be overcome and eradicated by the actions of human beings; that’s why Global Citizens focus on actions because we believe actions should be the currency of everything we do,” Evans said. Explaining how the ticket system works, he said they were not sold, but given in exchange for actions.  “All of your actions will earn you points for everything you have participated in over the next six months in the lead-up to the festival.” By signing up today, participants will be given an opportunity to learn more about the ticket process and how they can earn the points to gain a ticket. “First thing is to recruit all your friends and family; for every person you will earn one point, then from August 21 the action journey will kick in.” Each participant will have to do two types of actions - grassroots and systemic actions, or actions which get people involved in community work, and force authorities to live up to their promises. There will also be ticket draws for organisations that are already doing community work and outreach. “We are partnering with the United Nations and working to ensure there is accountability around the sustainable development goals. These are 17 goals and 169 indicators agreed upon by world leaders to eradicate poverty and tackle injustice and climate change. These goals represent the roadmap for the future,” Evans said, The line-up for the hosting duties is also impressive with the likes of philanthropist and businesswoman Oprah Winfrey, Sir Bob Geldof, Gayle King, Tyler Perry, Forest Whitaker, South Africa’s own Bonang Matheba and Naomi Campbell. “South Africa holds a very special place in my heart," said Campbell. "Madiba was a man whose values and wisdom have left a lasting imprint on the world. I’m invested in the Global Citizen movement to end extreme poverty. This is a goal that I believe should be achievable and imperative that we reach it." The festival will be the culmination of a six-month campaign engaging Global Citizens around the world on seven Global Goals; poverty, hunger, health, education, girls and women, water and sanitation and life below water. “Mandela said overcoming  poverty is not a gesture of charity, it is an act of justice. That’s why Global Citizen focuses on systemic change not just traditional philanthropy. 
“Sometimes it falls upon a generation to be great, you can be that generation,” said Evans.