This emerged at an urgent public meeting attended by residents, MMCs and councillors at the University of Pretoria on Tuesday. The meeting followed a record number of 30 muggings in 13 days in the facility. Despite security upgrades in the past, including boom gates and electric fences, the historic Fort Klapperkop continues to be plagued by muggings and robberies along its nature trials. Ward 59 councillor Shaun Wilkinson assured attendees that he was going to make the precinct safe again, but couldn’t do it alone. “We want to restore the once-great Klapperkop to its former glory. But we are going to need all stakeholders and residents to play their part exceptionally well,” he said. Wilkinson said the City was in talks to have constant patrolling of the precinct. “We have contacted ADT, Hi-Risk Security and Interactive Security to forge together a police-keeping force to increase the precinct’s security dramatically,” Wilkinson said. Hi-Risk’s Gareth Pahl said most of the muggings took place very early in the morning or very late at night. He proposed that the nature reserve open at 8am and close at 6pm, during which time there had to be a heavy police and security presence. “It will be too bad that people won’t be able to catch Pretoria’s skyline late at night from the lookout points. But no skyline is worth someone’s life,” he said. Wilkinson said a plan, involving various stakeholders, active citizens and the Friends of Groenkloof to ensure safety, was their main focus. The plan is supported by mayor Solly Msimanga and is to ensure people continue to have freedom of movement within the reserve. An example of the security features was controlling the access and movement by opening and closing the nature reserve at certain times. “It’s going to be  a bit restrictive, but it is for the greater good.” Wilkinson said the nature reserve needed to be safe not only for tourists but for residents. “This used to be a lovers paradise and family get away. We need to restore those sentiments by cracking down on these criminals.” So far, some boom gates have been installed at the eastern and western entrances, along with a Wendy house at each entrances, where security guards are housed. MMC for Safety and Security Anniruth Kissoonduth said the City had no budget for additional security features for this year. Previously, the Friends of Groenkloof raised R60000 for the installation of the boom gates. Recently, five young people, aged between 19 and 20, were attacked at Fort Klapperkop. It is believed the group had stopped at a lookout point when 
six men jumped out from different 
directions armed with pistols and tasers. They intimidated the group and forcefully demanded their valuables, took all their possessions, including phones, purses, hats, jackets 
and shoes. One man was assaulted with a taser until he passed out, and another had a gun held to his head. One woman was pulled out of the vehicle and kicked by one of the perpetrators during the mugging.