The move will come as a blow for Msimanga, who two months ago stated the City wanted to revitalise the capital and make it attractive for business “because we want to create jobs”. The Ward 43 businesses - calling themselves the Waltloo Industrial Association - have threatened to mobilise the communities of Silverton and Eersterust and field an independent candidate to challenge a DA councillor in the next local government elections in 2021. Group spokesperson Marcus Venter said the area always had service delivery challenges, but these intensified when the DA-led coalition came into power in 2016. Venter said the group was convinced that DA councillors were restricted in terms of what they could say in council. He said an independent candidate, whom the association would fund, would speak freely and criticise the DA-led administration without fear. The group said they had tried everything to raise their challenges with the municipality and in particular the office of Msimanga without success. The business people said Waltloo industrial site had just one entrance at the corner of Zasm Street and Waltloo Road, but this had become unattractive for business owing to the slow bus rapid transit infrastructure construction and constant power interruptions. The association said the dilapidated infrastructure in the area included an illegal dumping site and exposed electricity wire from transformers in the streets. There was also the Waltloo Electricity Depot on Waltloo Road, which had a hole in its wall caused by cable and metal thieves. “The criminals are so relaxed they steal these transformers and even burn them right behind the depot. The ground is wet from transformer oil, your feet sink in. We reported this so many times, but we have given up now,” said businessman Andrew van Vuuren. “We are not a political party; we are businessmen and businesswomen who want to trade, not to claim from insurance companies. Right now 30% of the firms are abandoned because owners cannot do business here anymore. “Our clients see this place and start having doubts of our capabilities,” said Venter. The group said it did not understand how a city that wanted to create employment for its residents ignored the challenges of an industrial area. There were many firms that created a lot of jobs and had opportunities for small businesses, including people who sold food. Prior to last week’s by-election in the neighbouring Ward 47, the group started a #WhatProgress? campaign to challenge the DA’s stance that there was service delivery progress. However, the #WhatProgress? posters that were put up on street poles have since been removed. The group said it had no idea who removed them. “Msimanga’s administration in response commandeered City staff to remove all our posters in Ward 47. This was done six hours after they were put up by us,” claimed Venter. However, he said they believed the campaign would also bring the attention of the public to the problems of the “ignored” industrial site in Ward 43. The association said the rights of its members were contravened by the City, and that it was exploring its options, including complaining to both the Electoral Commission of South Africa and the DA federal office. It also issued an open invitation to all caucuses in council to visit Waltloo to experience the situation first hand and added that it was considering a civil lawsuit against the municipality for all business losses. Msimanga’s spokesperson Samkelo Mgobozi, said the City took the concerns of the business people seriously and would respond to matters raised in due course. Pretoria News