Rapula Moatshe Some patients at Kalafong hospital in Atteridgeville were allegedly forced to sleep on the floor due to a shortage of beds in the wards. There was also a lack of blankets and linen to keep patients warm during cold weather. The grim situation at the hospital was painted by EFF supporters during a march in the township. Regional party leader Benjamin Disoloane said the march was staged in line with the party's call to campaign for an improved healthcare in government clinics and hospitals this year. He said the ill-treatment of pensioners and abuse of pregnant women at the hands of nurses was among burning issues that must be urgently solved. Dressed in their traditional red colours, demonstrators chanted Struggle slogans in front of the hospital, calling for the management to end numerous complaints of bad treatment of patients. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  Disoloane said: "We resolutely condemn the ill-treatment of senior citizens and disabled people in this hospital and demand that it stops with immediate effect. We are here because we are frustrated by persistent delinquency of nurses who abuse women in the maternity ward, and treat giving birth as if it is a sin." He strongly condemned the negative attitude by nurses, who "openly call HIV and AIDS patients in queues to receive their medication, humiliating them and thus adding to the stigmatisation of HIV and AIDS." Disoloane accused the hospital management of turning a blind eye on the problems of long queues in casualty wards. He claimed that other patients ended up sleeping on the floor due to a shortage of beds in the wards. "For a long time patients have been left with no option but to discharge themselves after sleeping on the floor for days in the casualty ward due to shortage of beds. We call on the provincial Department of Health to intervene immediately," he said. Disoloane attributed the larger part of the problem to ineptitude among the staff and corruption within the department. "We are here to demand that more staff members from administration staff, nursing staff and doctors must be employed to ensure efficient medical attention is given to patients and avoid overworking staff which leads to them being fatigued and making medical mistakes," he said. He claimed that most air conditioners in the wards were not working and must be immediately fixed. "We mandate the hospital management to buy linen and blankets with immediate effect, as patients in the wards are left freezing due to a lack of linen and blankets in all the wards," he said. Disoloane said the party was flabbergasted by the hospital management's failure to buy medical equipment. He said lack of equipment had resulted in nurses failing to properly do their work and doctors not incorrectly diagnosing patients. "We are here because we are frustrated by the persistent failure of the government to attend to pressing matters in public health. The number of patients dying in public hospitals is a cause for concern," he said. Disoloane handed over the memorandum of grievances to hospital CEO Manei Letebele-Hartell, who promised to adhere to party's ultimutum to give feedback within five days.