This followed the approval of the Public Audit Bill by Parliament yesterday for the auditor-general to intensify the fight against corruption in the state. Deputy Speaker Lechesa Tsenoli referred the bill to the National Council of Provinces for concurrence after it was backed by all parties in the National Assembly. The chairperson of the standing committee on the auditor-general, Vincent Smith, said the time for municipalities, departments and SOEs to ignore the findings of the AG were over. He said year after year the AG’s reports showed a huge increase in irregular expenditure, but no action was taken against officials. He said in the municipalities this irregular expenditure rose from R16.2 billion to R28.4bn. “To date actions by the auditees to recover these losses have been unsatisfactory. "We believe the continued mismanagement of taxpayers’ money can be stopped and will be stopped,” said Smith. He said the AG would now have the powers to refer cases of corruption to the Hawks, the police, the Special Investigating Unit and the public protector. Alan McLoughlin of the DA said the party fully supported the bill as the AG would deal with corruption. This followed years of frustration by the AG. He would identify corruption in departments, municipalities and SOEs, but nothing happened. McLoughlin said this happened year after year and officials got away with corruption. He said if accounting officers including directors-general and boards of SOEs failed to act on irregularities they would face the consequences. Nazier Paulsen of the EFF said they would support the AG in referring corruption cases to the Hawks and other law enforcement agencies. He said billions of rand had been stolen from SOEs, including Eskom. He said municipalities had collapsed because of irregularities, yet no action was taken against officials. “While we support the bill, this is only the beginning. We should go after those who steal state money,” said Paulsen. Narend Singh of the IFP described the amendments to the bill to empower the AG as a watershed. He said the amendments to the bill were aimed at recovering losses and detecting fraud and corruption in the departments, municipalities and SOEs. Singh said the bill was a significant step forward. He said it was of concern that during the public hearings on the bill the objections they received were from the legal advisers of the eThekwini Municipality. Ironically, it was the same municipality where the AG had withdrawn his officials after they had been threatened. Parliament has condemned the threats against AG staff.