Blanton’s Single Barrel, voted by Jim Murray’s Whisky Bible as “Liquid Gold” is a must, or try the Buffalo Trace Straight Bourbon Whiskey or the award-winning Indian Single Malt, Paul John, crafted with barley grown in the foothills of the Himalayas combined with Indian ingredients from the bays of Goa. Douglas Laing specialises in craft Scotch Whiskies and visitors can try some of the best regional single malts such as Timorous Beastie from the Highlands, Scallywag from Speyside, Rock Oyster from the Islands and Big Peat from Islay. Speyside is the most densely populated whisky region in the world and the centre of whisky production in Scotland. Many of the distilleries use water from the river Spey. On offer for the Celebration is the rich and sweet notes of The Macallan, or the light and fruity flavour of Aultmore and whisky from the historic Glen Grant stable. Patrons who are looking for smoky, sweet and floral flavoured blends can enjoy Scottish Leader’s Challenging Perspectives - the luxurious flagship of their internationally renowned collection, which scored a gold in the World Whiskies Awards in the UK. Tommy Dewar linked his passions (for whisky and chickens) in his award-winning Blended Scotch. If you like Island Style whisky Highland Park is back at the Whisky Live Celebration, along with the Bunnahabhain Islay Single Malt presented by none other than the Master of the Quaich, Pierre Meintjes, who will entertain with his storytelling and enthral with his advice. Renowned for being the world’s richest single malt Scotch, Laphroaig’s award-winning family of whiskies consists of a selection of Core, Travel Retail and Rare expressions, and for those who like whisky heavily peated, try Ardbeg. An impressive range of Irish whiskies will be available for tasting at this year’s Celebration. The Pogues from West Cork - named after the Irish Celtic rock band - is a blend of 50% Irish Grain Whiskey and 50% Irish Single Malt Whiskey. The award-winning triple distilled West Cork will be showcased alongside The Pogues. Visit the Irish Pot Stills of Midleton stand and sample the likes of Green Spot, Yellow Spot, Powers John’s Lane and Redbreast. For the Jameson fan, Jameson Caskmates will be available to taste. This whisky is finished in stout-seasoned whisky casks with notes of cocoa, coffee and butterscotch. A whisky festival is not complete without some good old American Whiskey. Jack Daniels returns to Whisky Live and offers Jack Daniels Old No 7 to Jack Daniels Single Barrel and Gentleman Jack. Made in Kentucky and enjoyed worldwide, spicy newcomer Buffalo Trace has an outstanding aroma that is rich, complex and smooth in taste. Another American hit is Maker’s Mark Kentucky Straight Bourbon Whiskey with hints of sweet vanilla and notes of cinnamon and almond. Taste South Africa’s internationally award-winning whiskies, Bain’s Cape Mountain Whisky and Three Ships Whisky in the company of Master Distiller Andy Watts, who was awarded the Global Icons of Whisky Master Distiller Master Blender at the 2018 Whisky Magazine’s Icons of Whisky awards held in London in March.