MMC for Utility Services Darryl Moss warned that the blackout was due to old network cables and ageing systems that had been poorly maintained over years. Moss said residents could expect continual power outages throughout winter. “Electricity distribution in Pretoria West is vulnerable due to old network cables and systems, and has been poorly maintained over a number of years. “This is amplified by the recent cold weather, where power use increased, putting a larger load on the system,” he said. Residents had been forced to throw away meat and other perishable foods after the power went off. The City was rolling out a programme of cable replacement and substation repairs and upgrades, Moss said. This would reduce the number and duration of outages. Between Saturday and Tuesday night residents and business people who had been without electricity expressed anger and frustration. They staged a peaceful protest for two hours on Tuesday night against the City’s failure to restore power. Hangwani Mukhenge was one of the people who protested. “We have been forced to use paraffin stoves. No one is telling us anything. Food is going rotten in the fridge. “If I report they say ‘bring a slip’; how can you keep a slip of food if you don’t know what is going to happen,” he said. Shop owners said they were relieved that power had been restored as they would save money on petrol for generators, paraffin, gas and candles. On Twitter, some residents counted their losses after all their perishable goods had gone rotten. Students complained about being unable to study in darkness. @mulalosdk was among those who complained. “There was no power in Pretoria West for four days, and the municipality is mum about it. People can’t afford takeaways every day. We threw away rotten meat from our fridges.” @Calvinantor said: “We don’t have electricity in WF Nkomo, Pretoria West. We've just thrown away meat. They're not saying anything.” Tshwane Fresh Produce Market retailers had also been hit hard by the outages. Owners, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said their generators were a saving grace otherwise they would have lost immensely. The biggest gripe raised by residents was how they would not be able to claim back from the City what they had lost. But Moss said people with no sale slips could claim for compensation of damaged goods through the City’s legal department. “If we know there has been a power outage in an area residents can claim, but they have to be reasonable. If one comes with a claim of about R15000 then we will have issues with that. There is a claim form they need to fill in and it is available on the Tshwane website.” Power outages affected a small part of Pretoria West, and was as a result of the faults on cable feeders. “We have two cable feeders in Pretoria West. One developed a fault. While we were investigating the fault on the feeder, the other feeder also developed a fault.” Moss said a specialist contractor was brought on board to repair the two cables. Moss has since appealed  to residents and business owners to keep the load low by turning off non-essential equipment; also, to report the illegal use of electricity such as illegal connections and by-passing of meters, all of which overload the system,” he said.