From an early age Pretorius said she was interested in reading and drawing and furthered her interests by doing a Bachelor of Fine Arts degree and collecting about 50000 books. “At school I sat at the back of the class but while there I would always read or write and that has always been my interest. And it is interesting how my interests as a child have become my living,” she said. Pretorius told the Pretoria News that the collection of books started while she was a teacher and she thought she would just collect books and store them for when she retired. She retired as an art teacher at Clapham High School at the age of 65. She said she would buy anything that was cheap and looked like a book but as she collected the books they birthed one another and before she knew it she had 50000 books in the house. From the moment you enter the gate at her Brooklyn home, you are welcomed by various kinds of books on the porch. She has turned her lounge, dining area, passage and garage, and just about anywhere where there is space, into book storage. She also opted to change her house setting and move into a smaller dining area just so she could make more space for the books. She carries a well-catalogued stock of Afrikaans books, kinderboeke, older children’s fiction, vintage crime and detective, books of South African interest, biography, history and war and any other genre one can think of. She said she mostly loved children’s books as she believed reading could change a child’s life. And her obsession to see children read has made her contribute reading and colouring books to children of street burgers. “When I see a little one on the street I give them something to read, and not just any book but one that I also enjoy when I read it because one author once said: ‘A child’s book is no good unless it is read by an adult with the same enjoyment.'” She said some of the books she had were what she called wild and homeless books which she adopted and fixed them nicely to put them to some good use. Pretorius is a firm believer that reading can change one’s life, saying she had been an atheist all her life until she read books by her now-favourite author, novelist and literary critic Clive Staples Lewis. She said she now sells books on Bid or Buy which she mostly posts to her buyers. Many of the buyers came from farms or rural areas as they didn’t have the luxury of buying second-hand books. Pretorius’s books range in price from R8 upwards. When she isn’t selling books online, she said she often dropped them at Walker Street and Duncan Street where people can choose books of their choice and read them free of charge at their homes. Those who are interested in buying books from Pretorius can do so by going to the Bid or Buy website and searching for Rozabooks to see her collection. She appealed to people who have books they did not use to kindly donate them rather than just dump them. They can do so by e-mailing her at rozabooks@telkomsa.net.