This was the reaction of KwaZakhele Rugby Union (Kwaru) legend Makhaya Jack in reaction to the historic appointment of Siya Kolisi as the first black Springbok captain yesterday. “We weren’t fighting for one leader, we were fighting for leaders to emerge because we do have the ability to lead and play the game. This game has been played for over a 100 years. Siya has now written a book which no one will ever erase.” The 26-year-old Kolisi was unveiled as the man to lead the Springboks in the upcoming three-Test series against England starting with a Test at the iconic Ellis Park Stadium on June 9. Jack, who also hails from Port Elizabeth and has been one of Kolisi’s mentors, added: “Siya is no ordinary player who has added numbers, he has proven it from the first day he wore the Springbok colours. Siya is going to be a role model and an inspiration to the youth from the Eastern Cape and the whole of South Africa. “Maybe Siya is the gate to open doors for an African Springbok coach to come now.” Kaya Malotana, former Springbok wing and the first black African to become a Springbok, hopes Kolisi’s appointment will expedite the rate of transformation in the sport.  “I am excited for Siya; for me it is long overdue and I think he has been frustrated. Being the Springbok captain is a great milestone but it is disappointing that in 2018 we are still talking about a black Springbok captain. “Opportunities have been there to do it in the past and were never used. I am just hopeful that we are not going to be stuck in celebrating the first black Springbok and forget that we still have a serious transformation agenda that we must fast track,” said Malotana. Transformation needed to be a priority for the South African Rugby Union as it is the only way of giving equal and fair opportunities to everyone in the game. “The only reason we are only celebrating the first Springbok captain in 2018 is exactly because the transformation agenda has not been made a priority by the powers that be. One would hope that South Africa will use this opportunity to bring this issue of transformation back to the table and into the spotlight and put on pressure so that all the children who are playing this sport are on an equal footing,” Malotana said. Former Springbok captain Jean de Villiers believes that Kolisi possesses the right leadership qualities, but more importantly it is Kolisi’s life story that is an inspiration to his teammates and should be to the rest of the country. “I am happy for him, he has showed leadership capabilities and he is an inspiration. He has an unbelievable life story hopefully he can be a very successful Bok captain. There is a bigger story in showing what is possible if provided an opportunity and this is a fantastic story for South Africa once again,” said De Villiers. “It is a significant move by South African rugby. We must not look past Siya’s life where he overcame odds to be where he is now. It speaks volumes of the individual, his fighting spirit is evident on the rugby pitch and it is a story that can not only inspire his teammates but the whole of South Africa.” Olympic gold medallist Wayde van Niekerk said on Twitter: Yes!!!! Congrats my brother!!! So proud of * , Captain! #siyakolisi Sprint ace Akani Simbine tweeted “Captain my Captain SIYA KOLISI” while former Bafana star and current Cape Town City coach Benni McCarthy tweeted, “What a big achievement and massive honour to Captain your Country. Congratulations my brother.” See Page 9