The funeral was like no other - it was a typical example of “how to bury a legendary jazz icon”. Mourners danced and sang with pride and joy as they said goodbye to one of the greatest guitarists. Tabane’s funeral was an all-day affair that attracted Mamelodi residents. He died on May 18. It started first thing in the morning at his home in Mamelodi West, before mourners travelled to the University of Pretoria’s local campus for the formal event. The elderly rocked up in style wearing colourful clothes and shiny leather shoes. With their vibrant fashionable clothes and shoes, they did not hesitate to dance when the Malombo Jazzmen started playing music. Men and women danced next to Tabane’s casket while others applauded and took videos of those dancing. An atmosphere of joy and excitement was palpable. The large audience applauded and whistled when music promoter Peter Davidson told the crowd that Tabane used to say “money should be printed on meat so that those who had a lot of it would share their money with others so that it did not rot”. Arts and Culture director-general Vusi Mkhize and MEC for Sports, Arts, Culture and Recreation Faith Mazibuko described Tabane as a true African talent who deserved to be celebrated. Mkhize said South Africa  was mourning a great guitarist who played great music that was recognised globally. The government recognised Tabane’s contribution to the arts in South Africa and the world, he said. After the service, bikers led the crowd from the university hall to Mamelodi B3 cemetery were Tabane was laid to rest. Tabane’s beautiful casket was lowered down while the crowd listened to the song Time to say goodbye by Sarah Brightman, and some of Tabane’s music. His grave is next to that of murdered 10-year-old Katlego “Katli”Joja, the autistic girl who made headlines when she was found dead after going missing for four days earlier this month. Johannes Tabane, thanked the large crowd on behalf of the family and as well the government for its assistance. He also thanked Bataung Memorial Tombstones for giving the family a beautiful and worthy tombstone in honour of Tabane. Before the crowd departed, his tombstone was unveiled by Tabane’s family.