This time, De Lille is being charged for comments she made to Eusebius McKaiser on April 26 on his talk show on Radio 702/567 Cape Talk. During the radio interview, McKaiser asked her if she would resign. McKaiser asked: “If I hear you, you are saying: ideally, I want to clear my name, that’s why I am going to court, and if I win this battle, and when I win it, because I know I’ve done nothing wrong, then the morning after I have won the court case, then I will resign from the DA?" De Lille replied: “I will walk away. You summed it up correctly. Because really it is not about hanging on... I’m serving there at the behest of the DA. "The DA has gone through a process and Electoral College, they have put me into that position. I’m representing the DA, and if the DA feels that it wants to put someone else in that position, it is also entitled to do that.” In a letter to Glynnis Breytenbach, chairperson of the DA’s federal legal commission, De Lille said: “I am talking about resigning as mayor of Cape Town and not as a member of the party. Let us not fool ourselves. The dispute between me and the party is about the position of mayor in Cape Town and not about my membership of the party. "The party would not have offered me a position in Parliament if it wanted to get rid of me as a member,” she said. But Natasha Mazzone, deputy chair of the DA federal council, said a charge was brought against De Lille in terms of section 3.5.1.2 of the DA's constitution. It “states a member ceases to be a member of the party when he or she publicly declares his or her intention to resign and/or publicly declares his or her resignation from the party”. Mazzone said the Federal Legal Commission was deliberating this issue: “Should the FLC find that she did announce her intention to resign, then her membership will cease.” Meanwhile, the D  federal executive’s talks on the matter were cut short after De Lille’s lawyers served legal papers on the DA. “During the course of these deliberations we received legal papers from Ms De Lille advising that she intends approaching the courts. As a result we have suspended discussions pending legal advice,” Mazzone said.