“Smoking kills,” Sanlam chief medical adviser, Dr Marion Morkel, warns as the world turns its focus on anti-smoking efforts on this World No Tobacco Day. Sounding the warning that people must not  take the risks of tobacco lightly, she said: “Yes, smoking does kill. Despite 'alternative facts' on the internet or comparisons of how it fares against other drugs, medical evidence remains - smoking causes one-third of all cancer deaths.” Morkel said recent research by the American Cancer Society found that smoking cigarettes did not only increase the risk of lung cancer, but it also directly caused 12 types of cancers, something South Africans were not immune to. The habit multiplied the risk of medical conditions, which include cardiovascular disease, lung disease and even psychiatric conditions, all caused by or exacerbated by smoking and second-hand smoking. Today marks World No Tobacco Day, and experts have asked the world to keep in focus the link between tobacco, heart and other cardiovascular diseases, and the rights of non-smokers. Tobacco is said to be an important risk factor for the development of coronary heart disease, stroke, and peripheral vascular disease. The World Health Organisation (WHO), in its continued efforts to raise awareness of the anti-tobacco month, asked people to choose their health over tobacco. It said the first step had to be to acknowledge how tobacco use has remained an important risk factor for the development of coronary heart and other diseases. In its anti-tobacco campaign, the WHO highlights the link between tobacco, heart and other cardiovascular diseases as well as stroke, saying they are the world’s leading causes of death. It wants to see action from governments and the public to reduce health risks concerning tobacco use, because, it said, tobacco use and secondhand smoke exposure were the ultimate contributor to approximately 12% of all heart disease deaths in the world. “The global tobacco epidemic kills more than 7million people each year, of which close to 900000 are non-smokers dying from breathing second hand smoke.” According to experts, during the 2016/17 tax year the cigarette market produced between 26 and 27billion cancerous sticks. A report by Statistics SA shows 7% of women aged 15 and older currently smoke tobacco products. While the attention is on the rights of non-smokers, the draft Control of Tobacco Products and Electronic Delivery Systems Bill 2018 was published on May 9 for public comment. The bill intends to control and ban smoking. Among other provisions, the bill aims to ban the display of tobacco products in all formal and informal retail and wholesale outlets and to ban the sale of tobacco products through vending machines. It also introduces a complete ban on indoor smoking, including the removal of closed off designated smoking areas in which many businesses have invested. The bill also wants smoking to be banned in homes where a domestic worker is employed, and calls for severely restricted outdoor smoking areas. The overall awareness campaign aims to increase awareness on the impact of tobacco use, the effects and the exposure second hand smoke has on cardiovascular health. And while over the years cigarettes lost the “cool” allure they had in the 1990s, studies conducted by the Economics of Tobacco Control Project (ETCP) at UCT ahead of today, indicate that the trade in cigarettes was growing in the country. The project's research into tax data monitoring cigarette sales and consumption in South Africa has showed a decline in excise tax revenue from tobacco products, which could mean a large increase in the illegal cigarette market trade. ETCP head Professor Corné van Walbeek said the Budget Review, released in February 2018, showed that excise tax revenue from tobacco products had decreased by about 10%. Between 2016 and 2018 there has been a 20% decrease in the number of tax-declared cigarettes, which he said pointed to a problem. “This large decrease is cause for concern. Such a rapid decrease in consumption over this short period cannot be explained by changes in people’s smoking patterns alone. "Instead, it points to a large increase in the illicit cigarette market. Cigarettes acquired illegally are cheaper. Sadly, these cigarettes are being sold in the poorest communities.” Surveys conducted in informal settlements in South Africa indicated that the illegal sale of cigarettes was thriving, as they were being sold at 50 cents each, or R10 per pack, he said. The excise tax per pack was R15.52, which Van Walbeek said indicated that the tax had not been paid. He added that this exposed the prevalence of an illegal cigarette market in informal settlements, directly related to the inflated retail prices that were being charged by multinational companies. “For more than 15 years, between the early 1990s and 2010, British American Tobacco was able to use its near-monopoly power to sell cigarettes at increasingly higher retail prices and make massive profits, despite sizeable increases in the excise tax. “This created an incentive for competitors to enter the market and undercut prices. "Since around 2010 (they have taken) a substantial share of business away from multinationals. The result is a very fragmented and near-chaotic market.” Meanwhile companies and individuals are urged to remember the deaths from tobacco - directly and indirectly, and to choose health.