Previous national police commissioners had not been able to complete their terms of office after they were accused of corruption in the past 18 years. Godi said the last person to have completed his term as head of the SAPS was George Fivaz. He was appointed in 1995 and left in 2000 when his contract expired. But his successors in the next 18 years had failed to finish their terms. Jackie Selebi was in the police from 2000 until 2008 when he was removed after he was charged and convicted of corruption. He had taken bribes from convicted criminal Glenn Agliotti. Bheki Cele did not finish his term either after he was fingered by a board of inquiry over the lease of the police’s proposed headquarters in Pretoria and another police building in Durban. Cele was fired by then president Jacob Zuma in 2012. He challenged the matter in court. He has since made a comeback as Police Minister after he was appointed by President Cyril Ramaphosa in February. Cele’s successor in 2012, Riah Phiyega, did not finish her term either. She was axed following the release of the Marikana report by the Farlam Commission of Inquiry. The commission fingered her for 
the 2012 shooting in Marikana. Phiyega’s successor acting national commissioner Khomotso Phahlane was also caught up in allegations of corruption. Phahlane was arrested with his wife and a businessman last year following an investigation by the Independent Police Investigative Directorate (Hawks) into his conduct. Phahlane had a slanging match with Ipid in Parliament last year before he was removed from the position by former minister of police Fikile Mbalula. Godi warned current police commissioner Khehla Sitole yesterday that this was not a good track record of the police’s top commissioners. “All the commissioners after George Fivaz have not completed their terms,” said Godi. The instability at the top of the SAPS was similar to that at the National Prosecuting Authority. None of the National Directors of Public Prosecutions have completed their full term since the NPA was formed. Bulelani Ngcuka left halfway through his contract. Vusi Pikoli also did not complete his term after he fought with his former bosses over the Jackie Selebi investigations. Mokotedi Mpshe acted for a brief period before he was replaced by Mxolisi Nxasana, who was given a golden handshake by Zuma - and is still fighting for his job back. His successor Shaun Abrahams is on his way out after the High Court ordered President Cyril Ramaphosa to remove him and appoint a new national prosecutions boss.