She is stationed along Paul Kruger Street and is at a perfect spot for ordinary citizens, the police, paramedics, prison warders, traffic officers, soldiers, taxi and bus drivers. The 57-year-old is also within easy reach of zoo staff and municipal public servants. She had honed her skills at the stove of her former employers. “I realised I could cook when I cooked delicious food for my former employers in their home. They both worked at the Union Buildings, and were so busy they didn’t have time to cook their own food. “At that point I knew I had to save money to get a driving licence so I could one day resign and follow my dream. I knew I wanted to feed the hundreds of people who work in Pretoria,” the single mother of five children said. Her wish was to one day cook tripe and steak for mayor Solly Msimanga so he could taste the good food that attracted the city’s workers, she said, tongue in check: “I challenge that young man to come and taste Mama Mahlangu’s cooking.” Mahlangu took a risk in 2000 and left her job. She took what money she had and started cooking. That became her only source of income. Taking that risk changed her life in more ways she could ever imagine. Today she has six employees, owns a home in Orchards and has successfully sent her children to tertiary education with the money she makes from doing what she loves - cooking delicious food. For breakfast she prepares bread, coffee, tea and eggs, and then gets on with pap, steak, tripe, wors and a variety of vegetables and salads for lunch, brunch and supper. When the Pretoria News was there the queues were long. All had come for Mama Mahlangu’s fare. “The support the people of Pretoria have shown me is so amazing, it makes me so emotional I could cry. They have loved my food from the start, and stuck with me through thick and thin.” And even as she talks of problems, including running out of stock, she revels in customers expecting her to feed them even after working hours. She said she’s learnt that keeping up with the hungry bellies in the capital was not child’s play because her customers finish R14000 worth of steak in less than 48 hours! Unlike most street cooks, Mama Mahlangu’s business markets itself by word of mouth from impressed customers. She has named her business Thanda Emabhodweni, which means Love the Pots -because that’s what her food makes people do. “I am at a point where some of my customers are white people. They were all brought by friends. I have a couple of bikers who love my food too, especially my breakfast.” Numerous business people have asked to buy the business but their offers were turned down. Some customers who travel  from as far as Centurion and Menlyn to eat at Mama Mahlangu’s spacious open garage have asked her to consider opening other branches or franchising her meals. “I have a big vision for my business. I can truly feel that I am going far with it. From being a nobody to having six employees, it means the Lord has a plan for my life. I love this business and I wish to grow it and then leave it for my children to inherit. This business took my children to school, fed them and clothed them. That is why they remain so respectful and humble towards our customers. We as  a family know it would be nothing without the people who buy our food.” Mama Mahlangu said she realised that most of her customers had demanding professions with hectic schedules, and so decided to start delivering food to offices in the capital. Now her customers, including executives in suits, simply dial 0732511324 and a hot meal is brought to their tables. She is proud that her business adds value to the city’s economy by providing stable jobs; and how she is able to pay rent to the municipality for operating in one of the city’s buildings. But that is not all; homeless people receive meals from the business in the evening regularly! Mama Mahlangu’s daughter, Boniswa, said her mother changed one drug addict’s life after advising him to let her keep his money until it was enough for him to take a driving licence. “Today he is a taxi driver and loves my mother very much. My mother would always advise him to change his ways every time she fed him.” Besides hoping to feed Msimanga one day soon, Mama Mahlangu has targeted corporate functions. Her belief is that the way to the heart of Pretoria is through its collective stomach.