Yesterday Mahumapelo announced his resignation as premier of the troubled platinum province, now under the control of the national government  through section 100 of the constitution, following allegations of corruption and poor governance linked to him. The spokesperson for the Revolutionary Council, an ANC faction which led the campaign against Mahumapelo, Thato Magogodi, said the group would now set its sights on disbanding the party’s provincial executive committee led by Mahumapelo. “The problems within the PEC are a manifestation of what is happening in the ANC. We don’t care about the threats against us." At the ANC’s Luthuli House, flanked by ANC secretary-general Ace Magashule and deputy secretary-general Jessie Duarte, Mahumapelo vowed that the ANC would target those who violently campaigned for him to be ousted. “That is nothing but counter-revolution and, when it rears its head, revolutionaries must rise to the occasion and thwart the counter-revolution,” he said. Apart from stepping down to avoid being accused of using his office to protect himself from the ongoing investigations that implicated him, he was also avoiding accusations that he is targeting those who helped push him out using his government post, he said. "We will have to use the might of the organisation to attend to this counter-revolution. If I continue to stay as premier when some counter-revolutionaries are embedded in a programme disguised as the revolutionary council I will also be accused of using my position in government for self-defence,” he said. Duarte said the ANC’s national top brass would dissuade Mahumapelo’s PEC against targeting those who had raised objections against him. “We are going to encourage the leadership in the North West province to accept that issues have been raised, 101b (section 100 (1) b) has been put in place. It's time to move forward,” Duarte said. Mahumapelo’s decision to resign saved him from his possible ceremonial removal by the ANC’s national executive committee, which is meeting at the weekend. Opposition parties and alliance partners in the North West welcomed his removal. Mahumapelo has complained that the push for his removal was part of a plan to purge those who supported Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma when she vied with Cyril Ramaphosa  for the ANC presidency. Both Duarte and Magashule were among ANC leaders who threw their weight behind Dlamini Zuma but they disputed Mahumapelo’s claim that there was a purge against them. Magashule said: “There is no purge.” Magashule said the NEC would decide on Mahumapelo’s replacement at the weekend.