The fruit and vegetable products include potatoes, lemons, tomatoes and apples. Citing confusion about the difference between “best before” and “use by” dates, the retailer said research had found less than half of respondents knew what those dates meant. The move is seen as part of a global effort to reduce food waste, which is estimated to be between 30% and 50%. That, while more than a billion people (or a sixth of the world’s population) suffer from chronic hunger. Global non-profit Business for Social Responsibility estimates to feed a world of 9billion people by 2050, to ensure people do not go hungry, and to safeguard food security, “significant changes need to occur throughout the current food system, from crop management and harvesting, to processing and consumption”. It says around 30% or more of food is discarded in processing, transportation, the retail environment (supermarkets and restaurants), and people’s kitchens. The rest happens before products even hit the shelves or fridges supply chain factors. Food waste is not a Western problem alone: Dr Suzan Oelofse, principal researcher at the Centre for Scientific Research, noted in a presentation that food waste from local production only accounted for a 9,04 million tons a year - or 31,4% of average annual production, while South Africa is one of the driest in the world  and total water loss as a result of food waste in the country accounted for nearly 22% of the total water used for crop production. That was in 2013, before the onset of the country’s devastating drought. A 2016 study by researchers at Stellenbosch University monetising cabbage wastage found that it amounts to over R16million a  year, and wastes enough water to meet the needs of more than 195 000 people annually. The study, published in the British Food Journal, is the first research effort of its kind in the country to monetise wastage and to calculate the environmental impacts of a specific type of food after it has been harvested or produced. The researchers extrapolated about 103 000 tons of cabbage never ends up on a plate. Legislative change Tesco’s move has been welcomed by campaigners both at home and internationally. Food donation organisation Oz Harvest told news.com.au it was a “bold move” and encouraged Australian retailers to do the same, calling for a reassessment of food labelling regulations. In South Africa, labelling changes need to come from the very top. Retailers and manufacturers are constrained by regulations that have been in place for a long time, Adele Krogh from Food Focus says, but the present definition of “best before” is from 2010. “It was introduced in 2010 with Regulation R146 (March 1, 2010), which makes it compulsory to put date stamps on food with the exception of a few items such as unprocessed honey, unpacked meat, vinegar, sweets and fresh produce,” Krogh explains. With high-risk products such as perishables, RTE (ready to eat, such as polony and pre-washed salad) products, it is for food safety reasons, so shelf life validation tests need to be done to confirm these dates. “However, there is also a quality issue - quality can deteriorate and so brands will want to protect their reputation in this regard,” she notes. Krogh says consumers often misunderstand date mark terminology and throw away good food, which contributes to food waste because they discard food that is still edible. Mark Little, Tesco’s head of food waste, told the BBC that packed fruit and vegetables were the items most commonly binned by shoppers, with “substantial numbers” throwing away potatoes or carrots that were perfectly fine to eat  but a day over their expiry date. However, he said other consumers were still ignoring the best-before dates and judging by their own eyes. “Many customers have told us that they assess their fruit and vegetables by the look of the product rather than the best-before date code on the packaging.” Your grandmother’s advice to conduct a quick sniff test, cut off the “bad bits” and toast stale bread is not all wrong. Sometimes though, food spoilage or contamination might not be perceptible. I asked two of South Africa’s biggest retailers about their views on the Tesco food labelling issue: David North, group executive of strategy and corporate affairs at Pick *  Pay, said: “We are bound by South African legislation which requires date codes to be specified, and the circumstances in which best before, use by and sell by are required. “We would work constructively with any proposals which would have the effect of simplifying information for consumers while keeping them safe. But government would have to be involved given the legislation.” Checkers said: “While South African labelling regulations do not require a date of durability to be displayed on whole fruit and vegetables, Shoprite Checkers does indicate a sell-by date on certain shorter shelf-life items to ensure timeous stock rotation in stores for quality control purposes and to minimise wastage. Cut fruit and vegetables carry sell-by dates in accordance with regulations. “Produce that have reached their sell by dates are still edible thereafter, provided the food is stored correctly and allows consumers to regulate shelf life. It is not viable for the retailer to predict the durability of fresh produce by using an indicator such as ‘best before’ after the item leaves its environment. “Furthermore, produce may still be fresh when reaching a best-before date but many consumers may believe that the food should not be consumed after that date, which will contribute to wastage in the home.” Checkers added that it would begin trialling the use of sell-by and use-by dates on its Ready-to-Cook convenience range, with a reduced price applied on the day the product reaches the sell-by date, in an effort to sell out stock on shelf instead of wasting, and to assist customers with quality and food safety control at home.