Lesufi said the Gauteng Department of Education visited the school and an investigation had since been launched. “Upon finalising the investigation a disciplinary processes will unfold and our psycho- social team will assist with counselling to the victims and the perpetrator. “It is unfortunate that such an incident occurred in our schooling environment while we are working tirelessly to improve social cohesion in all our schools.” The parents of the girl have demanded that Laerskool Saamspan management act to ensure that racial slurs and profanity were not used by pupils among each other ever again. The mother of the alleged victim said both her daughter and her 7-year-old brother attended the Mountain View school and went to the aftercare situated opposite its premises. She said the aftercare catered only for pupils from Laerskool Saamspan, and they had never encountered any problems over the years. But on the day of the alleged incident, she arrived home and found her daughter had locked herself in the bathroom and was crying. “It was on April 20 and we could see something was wrong. Initially she did not want to speak, but I sat with both (children) and asked what was wrong. “It was then that they told me an 8-year-old boy called them the k-word, * *** and other derogatory words. They were so traumatised my daughter could not even repeat the words that had been uttered to her. It was my son who whispered everything to me,” she said. Elsabe Steyn, owner of the after-care, told the Pretoria News that she was aware that the incident had taken place. However, she declined to comment further, saying the alleged incident was still under investigation. The mother said although the incident took place outside the school premises, she alerted management and a parent meeting was convened. She said all she wanted was an apology from the parents of the alleged perpetrator and for the school to teach its pupils that they were not allowed to use such language, but the meeting did not go as she had hoped. “During the meeting, the boy’s parents denied all the allegations. “Furthermore, the father of the boy asked my husband ‘what are you?’ to which my husband answered that he was coloured. “He then asked why my husband was offended so you can understand the kind of family the child comes from.” She said the school had promised to write something on the use of foul language in its newsletter, but that had not happened. She said they had since opened a case against the parents of the boy. However, the attorney for the alleged perpetrator, Mark de Bruyn, said his client denied allegations made against her minor son. “My client said she spoke with her son and she believed him when he said he did not make any racial comments to anyone. “The mother said she met the parents of the alleged victim and all she wanted was to have a discussion for the sake of their minor children, but that did not go well as the mother was angry. “At this stage we have not received anything from the school or anyone to show that the matter has escalated,” De Bruyn said.