Former Springbok wing Willemse walked out of the Supersport studios after saying he was “not going to be patronised by two individuals (Mallett and Botha) who played their rugby during the apartheid era”. Xasa said she condemned what she termed “the continued behaviour of white entitlement in the sport of rugby”, while Willemse received strong support from former Boks like Gio Aplon and Thando Manana. Xasa said: “This behaviour of entitlement by some white South Africans who continue to think their whiteness represents better must come to an end; if it was not for a barbaric nonsensical apartheid system that privileged them we could not have implemented a quota system to normalise an otherwise abnormal system. “Willemse is not just a former Springbok player but in 2003 he was named South African Rugby Player of the Year, Young Player of the Year and the Players’ Player of the Year.. “Players like Willemse, Habana, Kolisi continue to make us proud as a nation and affirm that they are not token players or quota players,” Xasa said. She said the incident follows another racial incident, where the K-word was used in an under-21 match between Roodepoort  and Wanderers rugby clubs. “It is clear that Ashwin Willemse was referred to as a quota player by his fellow panellists despite his many successes in the field of play. “I call upon SuperSport to suspend the two panellists while they are busy with a full investigation. The continued appearance of Mallett and Botha will be seen as an endorsement of their alleged racist behaviour,” said Xasa. There have been previous reports of alleged tension between Willemse and Mallett, with Willemse at one stage last year saying that Mallett was always contradicting him. Former Bok and Stormers legend Gio Aplon said yesterday he “saluted” Willemse. Aplon said on Twitter: “I believe all Ashwin Willemse wanted was to be treated fairly and equally by his counterparts, nothing more and nothing less, and for standing up for that I salute him. Former Bok Manana said he was “so glad” Willemse had “finally put Mallett and Botha in their place”. Before he walked off, Willemse said: “I think it’s important for me, because I’ve been in the game for a long time like most of us here. “As a player, I was labelled a quota player for a long time and I’ve earned and worked hard to earn my own respect in this game. So I’m not going to be patronised by two individuals  who played their rugby during the apartheid era, a segregated era and come and undermine. So for me, I’ve had my fair share and I can’t work with people who undermine other people.” Supersport spokesperson Clinton van der Berg said the sports broadcaster would issue a full statement today. “SuperSport is conducting an investigation to ascertain all the facts, suffice to say we regard the situation in a serious light. We have had preliminary discussions with Ashwin, which must remain private.” said Van der Berg. He said Supersport had “noted” Xasa’s statement calling for the suspension of Mallett and Botha. Willemse, Botha and Mallett were not available for comment yesterday.