Yesterday, the Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa (Prasa) announced it would reintroduce the train service on May 19. Commuters who used the Mamelodi corridor, and thus heavily relied on the service, were forced to endure weeks of inconvenience. This followed the suspension of the line in March owing to vandalism of trains and infrastructure and harassment of staff. At least 19 employees assaulted on the corridor are  still undergoing trauma counselling. A female driver was stripped naked and assaulted while security guards were also harassed just before the decision was made. Six new trains were vandalised, and the damage caused was estimated at R6million. In response to the vandalism and the suspension of service, a task team was set up which comprised various stakeholders to help resolve the train service challenges on the corridor. They included the Gauteng Department of Transport, City of Tshwane, Congress of South African Students, SACP, South African National Civic Organisation, SAPS, United Commuters Voice and ANC Youth League. Yesterday all stakeholders signed a clear, practical and binding social compact aimed at ensuring that all parties continued to work closely together towards ensuring safe, secure and reliable rail services. Acting Prasa chief executive Lindikhaya Zide said the level of commitment demonstrated by the different stakeholder structures, including all spheres of government, labour, commuter and community organisations, was highly appreciated and commendable. “The social compact is a record of a commitment by the various stakeholders who represent the affected Metrorail officials, the affected commuters and communities. (They are inconvenienced) due to the suspension of services, along with overall vandalism and crime on passenger trains. (All these activities) resulted in the suspension of the services.” MEC for Roads and Transport Dr Ismail Vadi welcomed the commitment stakeholders had made through the social compact. He said it was critical as it would outline the responsibilities of each stakeholder towards making sure that trains were protected, and staff and commuter lives were not threatened in any form in Metrorail operational areas. “It is a reassuring pledge, by the people for the people,” he said. MMC for Roads and Transport, Sheila Lynn Senkubuge, also welcomed the announcement of the reintroduction, but cautioned commuters against breaking the promises made. “While we welcome the move to reopen the line, we must also emphasise our call to the public to stop vandalising public property as this does not solve anything,” she said. Regional chairperson of the Congress of South African Students, Thabiso Mahlangu, said they understood their paramount role as stakeholders. “The trains are used mostly  by students. “We are the majority of commuters and therefore have a heavily indebted role to the social compact,” he said. Mahlangu added that the agreement would allow for a better communication channel. Prasa said it would prioritise the old Metrorail train sets rather than the new trains until such time the regulator was satisfied that the new trains could be deployed safely. Prasa has undertaken a modernisation project where the government has allocated R172 billion over the next 10 years. Since February last year, the Pienaarspoort-Pretoria corridor had been used as “proof of concept” to test the new fleet’s technical performance in the operating environment.