Du Plooy said the health issues that had been raised by people who were itching due to a vapour had been addressed. “By law, we had to close it and conduct all the tests. All the tests have been done, but there are still small things that have to be done. People will be served there from today,” he said. However, people who were there for medical consultation on Friday had said they were unaware that the clinic had closed and when it would reopen. They were turned back by a security guard, who told them the clinic was closed two months ago. A young woman, who did not want to be identified, said: “I was unaware that it had been closed. “I am now inconvenienced by the closure because I have to look for an alternative healthcare centre around here. This one is within walking distance from my house.” John Qotso said: “We now have to use clinics in Mamelodi West and Stanza Bopape. “The clinic was operating properly before it was closed.” He said he heard there was a dangerous chemical sprayed inside the facility, which forced the management to evacuate people. Lerato Mashigo said many people were in the dark as to when the clinic would be reopened. “We have to travel by taxi to get there. We are walking for 20 minutes to get to the next clinic,” she said. Phahameng was supposed to be a place of hope for residents, but it had to be closed down in February after workers fell sick due to the unbearable smell from dangerous chemicals. So dire was the situation at the municipal clinic that the City had no option but to close it down. This came after workers reported the matter to the South African Municipal Workers Union (Samwu). The union laid a complaint with the City’s Occupational Health and Safety unit. In both complaints, the workers said the clinic did not comply with the Occupational Health and Safety Act. Samwu’s Mpho Tladinyane said part of the bad odour came from the pepper-spray security alarm system inside the clinic. He said the Occupational Health and Safety unit was asked to urgently intervene by solving health issues there or face the situation whereby workers would “work outside the clinic”. In a letter which the Pretoria News has seen, Samwu wrote that the employer had until February 16, 2018, to attend to the matter. The unit’s Louis Seale told them it was not the first time that the matter had been brought to the City’s attention. In a reply letter to the union, Seale said workers had raised complaints regarding the health condition at the facility on October 20 last year. She wrote: “Employees complained about the presence of an airborne irritant in the clinic that they predominantly inhale. The airborne irritant affects their upper respiratory tract. The employees are concerned about their health.” She said the unit team conducted an inspection and investigated the matter on October 31 last year. “Previously the clinic had a pepper-spray security alarm system in the pharmacy. The system has since been decommissioned and the pepper-spray canisters removed after they presented problems. “The nature of the irritation experienced in the clinic is similar to the one they experienced while the pepper spray security alarm system was still existing in the pharmacy,” she wrote. Seale said the pharmacy was located in the middle of the building and was not naturally ventilated by means of openable windows to the outside environment. Following the inspection, the team told the City to “give a temporary lifting notice provided that all recommendations as per the hygienists report needs to be addressed within 60 working days”. The union and the Occupational Health and Safety department agreed that the City had to address the situation before the clinic could be reopened.