The groundbreaking partnership will see MultiChoice sponsoring the initiative, set to benefit scores of students. Research chair in Machine Learning, fully funded by MultiChoice, will act as a bridge between the two partners to guide them on projects and research topics to be chosen for sponsorship. There will also be bursaries and support for students at all levels. The projects will range from final-year and Honours projects, through to Masters and PhD degrees in Engineering, Data Science or Computer Science. During the launch yesterday, it was revealed that the initiative would develop and create an interest in Artificial Intelligence and machine learning skills which will make a significant contribution to research in this area. MultiChoice chief executive Calvo Mawela said: “As this is a very specialised field, partnering with an academic institute is a forward-looking way to nurture these skills.” Mawela emphasised the need to invest in the field, saying it was a scarce skill yet in demand. “The field of Artificial Intelligence and specifically Machine and Deep Learning, is key to the fourth industrial revolution and a truly digital future. There is a severe skills shortage worldwide, and even more so in Africa. “Worldwide there are only 6000 PhDs with little experience and a 20000 skilled pool of talent, with 30% of global pool of talent coming from only six organisations.” Mawela said the skills acquired would add value to their business ranging from content selection, automated editing and archiving, content recommendations, natural language processing in their customer care platforms and more. The initiative would also grow its pool of talent in engineering to help the company build its digital future, he said. “And more importantly, we’ll make a significant contribution to South Africa competing on an international stage in the new digital future.” Speaking on behalf of the university, Vice-Chancellor Professor Cheryl de la Rey said they were thrilled about the partnership. “We’re thrilled to have found a partner who supports us in developing high-level skills and enhancing technology education in South Africa so as to be at the forefront in the fourth industrial revolution.” Deputy Minister of Higher Education and Training Buti Manamela, who was at the event, said he was behind the initiative and hoped it would put South Africa on the map.