This as the inter-ministerial committee, spearheading the national intervention under Minister Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma, has been expanded by seven ministers after a slew of allegations were made. Addressing the media at a post-cabinet briefing yesterday, Communications Minister Nomvula Mokonyane said the office of the premier has been be placed under Section 100 (1) (b), along with the departments of Community Safety and Transport, Basic Education and Sports Development, Health, along with Public Works and Roads. “There will be a full take-over of administration and running of those departments and the office of the premier,” Mokonyane said. The announcement was made a day after Mahumapelo resigned, for the second time, ahead of the ANC national leaders meeting at the weekend. Asked to elaborate on the takeover of the premier’s office, Mokonyane said Mahumapelo’s office had taken over responsibilities from the four departments now placed under administration. She also said five other departments have been placed under Section 100 (1) (a) in order to receive support, advice and guidance to reposition them. These include Finance, Economy and Enterprise Development, Local Government and Human Settlement, Rural, Environmental and Agricultural Development, Social Development and Tourism. The minister said the expansion of the committee had to do to with delivery of front-line service. “In the process of interaction with communities in North West and stakeholders, including government, there are issues that have emerged.For example, housing, Sun City and many other allegations that have been put forward. “All those allegations do require that there must be brought in from the relevant departments in national government.” However, she said the committee report could not be made public. “The report has allegations, which some, have not been tested hence the work is continuing. “It is on this basis (and) there will be continuous briefings,” Mokonyane said. “There can’t be titbits and release of information that may have not been tested,” the minister said. An exit report would be prepared when the intervention was completed. “There has been agreement in cabinet that we have to be sensitive such that we do not go out and 
brief everybody and leave the communities of North West behind. “They become a relevant body 
in this process so that they can appreciate, contribute and, most importantly, can realise that there is a lot of objectivity in the intervention that the national government is doing.” Mokonyane told the media that the ANC was expected to choose a new premier among three preferred names at the weekend. “The ANC will appoint the premier and we hope and believe the ANC will appreciate the urgency. Hence, it will have to take advantage of its own meetings that are taking place this weekend.” She, however, said the new premier would not be a “lame duck”, because the provincial cabinet would not have been dissolved. The provincial cabinet would hold meetings where the intervention team would regularise issues for purpose of accountability, compliance with constitution and good governance. “It will be about making sure there is political authority because Dr (Nkosazana) Dlamini Zuma will not be a pseudo premier, nor Dr (Zweli) Mkhize or Mr (Nhlanhla) Nene. You need a political establishment to continue to function.”