It is one of the areas that I am particularly passionate about countering, as the scourge of drug abuse is damaging our communities. Nyaope is one of the most destructive in this regard. A toxic mixture of marijuana, heroin or cocaine (at times even laced with anti-retroviral drugs or rat poison), the drug has devastating effects on its users. Users often experience severe withdrawal symptoms when their initial high wears off - this includes stomach cramps, insomnia, diarrhea and vomiting. In many cases to offset these withdrawal symptoms from occurring users become addicted to the drug and require daily hits. In order to fund this drug habit users may often resort to theft which increases crime levels in the city. In some cases they also directly target city infrastructure and facilities which can hamper our ability to provide basic services. Disturbingly, last year there was also extensive reports on “bluetoothing” whereby a user who was already high would withdraw blood and then inject it into another user so that they can “share the high”, with potentially dire health consequences. As government we have a crucial role to play in combating the spread of drug abuse. When I say government I am not only referring to the City of Tshwane municipality. I am talking about every sphere: local, provincial and national. In the City we have launched our own Tshwane Metro Police Department Anti-Drug Unit. We have a network of NGOs that we support with grants who assist in running rehabilitation centres. We also have the HopeLine, a 24-hour call centre which provides a support network to drug users who are actively trying to seek help. Providing social support to drug users is important and critical towards their reintegration into society. In the words of Mahatma Gandhi, “the true measure of any society can be found in how it treats its most vulnerable members”. In our efforts to counter drug and substance abuse, we cannot merely rely on law enforcement efforts alone. Indeed, our TMPD police unit in collaboration with other policing units will target drug dealers, but in doing this we must also ensure that as a caring government we are able to provide a net of social security and hope to those who have become addicted to drugs. If we are to be successful we also need the participation and support of communities. Currently, we are in the final stages of establishing our Local Drug Action Committees (LDACs) in line with the requirements of the National Drug Master Plan 2013-2017, along with broader Regional Drug Action committees to give support to the LDACs. However, these committees will not work without active support from communities.. Their goal is to ensure that they provide oversight on drug and substance abuse programmes and to develop action plans to counter the spread of drugs in their local communities. Their success will depend on how well communities are able to work with the city in identifying drug users, channeling them into rehabilitation programmes and then monitoring their progress to ensure that they don’t relapse. Importantly, we also need communities to report drug dealers and local drug dens to the authorities so they can be adequately dealt with. As the City of Tshwane we are also awaiting the new National Drug Master Plan for 2018-2022 as there have been multiple developments with regards to the support that can be offered to drug users. National government has a core role to play in this space in providing resources and ensuring a co-ordinated approach towards countering the plague of drug abuse in our society. Joint collaboration between government departments is crucial if we are to succeed. However, it cannot be done alone we need communities to walk with us on this path so they can help us in identifying interventions. Msimanga is the executive mayor of Tshwane