Bacher said he spoke to the 34-year old extensively yesterday before De Villiers made his announcement online and said De Villiers had reached the end mentally and physically. “The pressure on him is formidable. The travelling is exhausting; there are huge expectations of him and it just became too much. He’s finished,” said Bacher. “He’s a family man, and is very close to his wife and young kids. This decision was made with them in mind too.” De Villiers used a 90-second video posted on social media to make his announcement. “I’ve had my turn and to be honest I’m tired,” he said in the video which was filmed at the University of Pretoria Oval. “This is a tough decision I thought long and hard about and I’d like to retire while still playing decent cricket and after the fantastic series wins against India and Australia; now feels like the right time to step aside.” De Villiers’s international career spanned 14 years. He played 114 Tests, 228 One-Day Internationals and 78 T20 Internationals. Just hours before his announcement, American sports broadcaster ESPN painted an illustration of De Villiers’s standing not just in cricket, but sport globally when it announced him as one of the 100 most famous athletes on the planet. De Villiers, who is revered in India, where he is one of the biggest stars of that country’s T20 competition, the Indian Premier League, said he still hoped to avail himself for his local franchise the Titans next season. However, at this stage he had no other plans to play in any of the other T20 leagues around the world where his services are coveted. Bacher described De Villiers as one of the three greatest batsmen South Africa had produced, putting him in the same category as Graeme Pollock and Barry Richards. “He’s been an icon for the country, I just hope people understand this decision. I know he’s announced similar things before, but this really is it and he deserves all the praise he’ll get.” De Villiers had announced a sabbatical from the game last February, citing the need to have a break, with an eye on being fresh for next year’s World Cup.. He returned at the start of last season and played instrumental roles in helping South Africa achieve historic Test series wins against India and Australia. Tributes poured in from around the cricket world yesterday. “Like your on-field game, may you have 360-degree success off the field as well. You will definitely be missed,” tweeted Indian great Sachin Tendulkar. “Everyone knows when their time has arrived, abbas is no different. Congrats on a wonderful career,” tweeted Herschelle Gibbs. Cricket South Africa’s stand-in chief executive Thabang Moroe said he was disappointed by De Villiers’s decision. “We are immensely grateful for what he has meant to South African cricket in all its constituencies and we wish him and his family everything of the best for the future,” said Moroe. See Sport