The royal couple, who exchanged vows in a ceremony at St George’s Chapel Windsor watched by millions across the world on Saturday, started their married lives at home at Nottingham Cottage at Kensington Palace in central London, with their first public engagement today. After the service, the Queen hosted a reception at St George's Hall where Prince Charles spoke emotionally about his son, Harry. This was followed by a private evening dinner and party where the couple are said to have chosen I Wanna Dance With Somebody as their opening number on the dance floor. Today they are expected at a garden party at Buckingham Palace for the Prince Charles’s 70th birthday patronage celebration. But the couple are expected to take a honeymoon soon, rumoured to be in Africa after they had spent their first happy holiday together in Botswana. A report suggests they may visit a remote resort on Namibia’s Skeleton Coast, known for its shipwrecks The Duchess of Sussex is expected to accompany Prince Harry at public appearances for the first 18 months but may then do solo appearances. On her page on the Royal family's official website it states that she will be undertaking royal duties in support of the Queen, both in the UK and overseas, and devote her time to supporting a number of charities and organisations. She is an advocate for World Vision, One Young World and UN Women, so is likely continue to campaign for social justice and women's empowerment. The couple's first foreign engagement is likely to be to Australia. Prince Harry has committed to travelling to Sydney in October for the Invictus Games and it is expected Meghan will accompany him. Their first public appearance together was at the Invictus games in Toronto, Canada,  last year. It is also likely at some point that they will visit Lesotho where Prince Harry and Prince Seeiso of Lesotho started the charity Sentabele to provide help and homes for vulnerable children. Prince Seeiso and one of the orphans Harry befriended, Mutsu Potsane, 18, were among those from the charity invited to the wedding. The royal family has thanked people who attended or watched the wedding. “Thank you to everyone who came to Windsor and those who followed from around the UK, the Commonwealth, and the world,” the royals said. An estimated 100000 people turned out to see the couple on their carriage procession through Windsor. The wedding is expected to be the most watched TV event of the year in Britain, although it did not have the same attraction as the wedding of brother William to Kate Middleton in 2011 which was broadcast across 10 UK channels. - Special Correspondent