Bejewelled crosses, veils and halo-inspired headdresses ruled on the red carpet, dubbed the Oscars of the east Coast for its celebrity guest list and stunning outfits. From saints to sinners, guests took to heart this year's theme of “Heavenly Bodies: Fashion and the Catholic Imagination” at the Metropolitan Museum of Art’s Costume Institute ball. Rihanna, one of the Met Gala co-hosts, dressed like a pope, sporting a head-turning, jewel-encrusted mitre with matching mini-dress and a priestly-style cape designed by Maison Margiela. Perry wowed in enormous, feathered six-foot high (about 1.8m) white wings teamed with a Versace gold mini-dress paired with thigh-high gold boots. The invitation-only Met Gala is a fund-raising benefit for the Metropolitan Museum of Art, and also marks the opening of the Costume Institute’s annual fashion exhibition. The 2018 exhibit shows how Catholicism has influenced fashion and designers through the decades and features more than 50 vestments and other religious items direct from the Vatican. Madonna, a key religious provocateur early in her pop career, turned demure in a black, long-sleeved gown, with a huge gold crown and a full face veil. Kardashian, appearing without husband Kanye West, kept it simple in a curve-hugging, gold metallic floor length dress with plunging neckline by Versace. Sarah Jessica Parker opted for a gold Dolce & Gabbana gown embroidered with sacred hearts and a towering nativity scene headpiece. Jennifer Lopez chose a Balmain dress, split to the hip, with a large cross across the breast and a black feathered train. Actors Olivia Munn, Zandaya and Priyanka Chopra went for Crusades-inspired chain-mail outfits, while Black Panther star Chadwick Boseman was among the few men going avant-garde in an ivory cape with gold beaded crosses, an embellished suit and gold coloured shoes. Perry will perform in South Africa for the first time in her Witness: The Tour in July. Two shows at The Dome on July 20 and 21 are sold out and a third has been added on July 18.