MISS South African 2018 Tamaryn Green said that it was a life-long dream of hers to enter the pageant. She also shared what she hoped to do during her reign. “As Miss South Africa I will be in a strong position to assist with the reconstruction of a better South Africa. I have always been passionate about making a positive and progressive difference in the lives of others. “I grew up being exposed to two very different worlds; that of the fortunate and less fortunate. I want to assist in bringing those worlds together. I believe this can be done by providing equal education to all.” The 23-year-old was crowned the most beautiful woman in South Africa during a glittering ceremony at the Sun Arena, Time Square, in Pretoria, last night. The glitzy event had nothing short of a breathtaking vibe and ambiance. The Miss SA pageant proudly celebrated its 60th anniversary Diamond Jubilee this year. Green beat 11 other bombshells from across the country to claim the prestigious crown. She will also represent the country on a the global stage at Miss Universe. Green made it to the top two and eventually outscored 26-year-old University of Cape Town graduate Thulisa Keyi, who walked away with the Miss World SA title. Keyi will receive nearly R600 000 in prizes. The models elegantly strutted their stuff on the catwalk showing off there different outfits. Most impressive was the swimwear, with each of them donning ice white costumes with colourful capes. Green, the final-year student slash model from Paarl, wowed the judges and the audiences when she told them that she would use her medical knowledge to heal people. “I want to empower women to be the best version of themselves.” The crown belonged to Adé van Heerden last year, and she gracefully handed it over with bravadoto the new queen. Green walked away with a tidy prize package totalling R3 million. In her Miss South Africa acceptance speech, Green said: “I promise to build on the legacy of all former Miss South Africa title holders and to represent my country with elegance, style, beauty and unwavering commitment. “Miss South Africa is so much more than just a competition. It is a calling, an opportunity to give back to the country that has richly provided so much to me so far.” This year’s Miss South Africa pageant saw a gathering of the biggest number of former title holders ever, including Miss World winners Penny Rey Coelen (1958), Anneline Kriel Bacon (1974) and Rolene Strauss (2014) as well as current Miss Universe Demi-Leigh Nel-Peters and Miss Universe 1978 Margaret Gardiner. Basetsana Makgalamele Kumalo (1994) and Kerishnie Naicker (1997) were also at the event.