Also, Saturday's dramatic walkout by Willemse during a live broadcast on SuperSport was not racially motivated, according to SuperSport and Multichoice. However, they will continue to investigate why the former Springbok wing put his microphone down and left the studio following a Super Rugby game between the Lions and Brumbies. The walkout sparked a huge debate on social media and led to former players and administrators strongly voicing their opinions. Racism appeared to be at the heart of Saturday's incident. However, SuperSport said more discussions needed to be had with the relevant parties, as well as studio staffers, before any conclusions could be drawn. “We didn't come anywhere close to getting a solution of what transpired on Saturday,” said SuperSport CEO Gideon Khobane last night. “We don't want to sweep this under the carpet, but we also don't want to rush it. We recognise we need to act expediently but we want it to be a fair process, too. People's names have been tarnished.” Khobane added that no one's job was on the line “at this point” and said business would continue as usual. “It's still business as usual. It's not fair to say this person is right, or that person is right. We'll check the schedule for the weekend there’s the Pro 14 final, there are Super Rugby clashes and if we take them off (air) then it's like we've already judged who's right and who's wrong, and that's not fair.” Khobane said SuperSport encouraged robust in-studio debate. “We've always encouraged our panellists to engage in robust debate. They don't have to agree, but that's why we have different panellists, with different views. I don't think that is the issue that is what we're trying to unpack. If it was a racist thing, then the solution would be easier.” Calvo Mawela, CEO of Multichoice, also said he didn't pick up that there was any racist issue. “From our observation there was no racism as far as we are concerned, but we're still digging deeper to find out what happened for this action (Willemse walking out). “No one just walks off stage for no reason. “The positive thing is that everyone was courteous (in our discussions). We didn't pick up that they can't work together again. But we want to get to the bottom of it, to avoid something similar in future.”