In order to be crowned the new title holder, finalists will need to impress seven of the country's most respected and influential personalities. The selection panel includes the queen of SA talk and radio jock Anele Mdoda; marketing personality Khaya Dlanga; businesswoman and media mogul Khanyi Dhlomo; entrepreneur and television presenter Janez Vermeiren; award-winning magazine editor Michelle van Breda; celebrity chef and TV personality Siba Mtongana; and Miss World 2014, Dr Rolene Strauss. Having walked the same journey as the finalists, Strauss said she would be looking for a strikingly beautiful woman who becomes more beautiful as one gets to know her. “As a previous Miss South Africa and Miss World holder, I have been in the shoes of the contestants and understand what challenges they face. I believe it would ease their minds to see a familiar face and a person who knows what they are going through. I will be looking for someone who is hard working, selfless, and resilient and handles difficult situations with ease and grace,” she said. As the competition celebrates its 60th anniversary this year, the new title holder will be crowned on Sunday at the Time Square Sun Arena in Pretoria. The event, to be televised live simulcast on M-Net and Mzansi Magic, will see 12 of the country's most beautiful women compete for the crown, to follow in the footsteps of reigning queen Adé van Heerden. Van Heerden, a doctor in the South African Military Health department, was originally runner-up to Demi-Leigh Nel-Peters, who handed over the title when she was chosen as Miss Universe. This year’s Miss South Africa pageant has announced a dramatic and exciting change to its format. Following the cut to the top five finalists, the organisers will go straight to a top two 
announcement. One of the pair will be named Miss World South Africa and one will receive the title of Miss Universe South Africa. Both will go on to represent South Africa on the global stage in each respective competition. Even so, there needs to be one title holder, so the two winners will be asked one final question by the panel and their answers will determine who will be crowned the official Miss South Africa 2018 and she will walk away with the R3million prize package.