After more than seven years of dragging its heels, the office simply conceded liability without laying any facts before the court. Gauteng High Court, Pretoria, Judge Moses Mavundla said this was an exceptionally large claim for which the taxpayer would essentially have to foot the bill. He said the office of the State Attorney, when confronted with such a large claim, should be vigilant to get its ducks in a row to prepare for its case as it is working with public funds. In this case the State attorneys simply threw in the towel at the end - after four years - and accepted all the experts' reports presented by the plaintiff, without bothering to assess through its own experts whether the nurses and doctors involved in this case were indeed negligent. Judge Mavundla was also not happy with the fact that the office in this case dragged out the legal proceedings and thus incurred additional legal costs for which the taxpayer once again has to foot the bill. “The handling of this matter borders on dereliction of duty on the part of the (State) attorney towards his client (the MEC for Health),” the judge said. Patience Kubheka, the mother of little Thianeo Kubheka, issued a claim against the MEC for damages after her son was born in the Far East Rand Hospital with 
severe brain damage 11 years ago. This was due to the negligence of the staff at the Daveyton Extension Clinic, where the mother was examined a day before she gave birth. She suffered severe complications and had an extremely high blood pressure at the time. Apart from referring her to the Far East Rand Hospital, the staff at the clinic did not detect that she suffered from complications, nor did they treat her in this regard. The doctors and nurses at the Far East Rand Hospital also did not examine and monitor both mother and foetus to detect if all was in order. Experts acting for the mother said if this had been done and a Caesarean section was performed in time, little Thianeo could have been a healthy, normal little boy today. Instead he is a spastic quadriplegic and thus can do nothing for himself, has seizures and is visibly impaired. He needs around the clock care and will never be able to walk, talk, eat or function by himself. According to expert reports submitted on behalf of the mother, this condition was due to the gross negligence of the nurses and doctors at both facilities. This prompted Judge Mavundla to remark in his judgment that if this is indeed so, a decision to have disciplinary action taken against the staff should be considered. “This will ensure that in future such instances of negligence as alluded to in the expert reports of the plaintiff are repeated.” In his opening remarks to his judgment after the birth of the child more than a decade ago, Judge Mavundla said he had received “good news” that the proceedings would be shorter as the MEC's attorney decided to settle the matter by conceding 100% liability. The parties wanted the judge to make the agreement an order of court. But Judge Mavundla said he felt compelled to compile a written judgment, as there were certain concerns on his part regarding the conduct on the part of the State Attorney's office. He questioned what this office did to prepare for the case since it had received summons years ago. He said if that office obtained its own experts as it should and then conceded liability after making an informed decision, it would have saved a lot of money coming from the public purse. The judge ordered the State Attorney's office involved in this case to present a memorandum to Judge President Dunstan Mlambo in which they had to explain their actions. He meanwhile made the agreement - that the MEC accepted 100% liability - an order of court. The amount due to be awarded to the mother will be decided on later.