THE quick response of community members after fire raged through Lizzy Kgosiemang’s home in Capital Park on Thursday night saved lives and restored her faith in humanity. Kgosiemang, a neighbour of Tshwane mayor Solly Msimanga, said that as the news of the disaster spread, residents arrived and offered support and donations. “Mothoke motho ka batho ba bang (a person is a person because of other people);  the community of Capital Park has proven this to be more than just a Setswana phrase. Because of them, I don’t see a burnt house; I see the love of God with all the love that He has blessed me with to assist my family,” she said. Recalling the incident, she said it was around 6pm - and seconds later the house was in flames. “I remember my mother complained that she was feeling cold. “She told my nephew to switch on the gas heater for her. I don’t know if it was because my nephew was not used to operating a gas heater, but within seconds he came in running, saying there was a fire. “There were five of us in the house at the time. My daughter was studying in her room and my grandchild was also studying in the other room. Luckily we managed to get everyone out quickly before they could be harmed,” she said. Although everyone fled the house unharmed, Kgosiemang was left with bruises on her nose and left cheek, which she said she suffered when she went into the house to help her mother get out. “Everyone is safe and none of them suffered any burns except for me. I sustained these when I went back into the house to assist my mother, who is old and frail.” She said her daughter was studying for an exam she was supposed to write at Unisa on Friday, but couldn’t as her books, laptops, phones and everything else were burnt to ashes. Kgosiemang said only the kitchen equipment and utensils, were saved after the Tshwane Emergency Service responded to the fire alarm. The community has since been flocking to the Kgosiemang household to lend a helping hand in bringing them food, clothing and other items. Kgosiemang’s husband Shima said he was not home when the fire started. He received a call when he was on his way back home. “When my wife called she just said ‘come home the house is on fire’. When I tried to ask questions she just cried. “When I received another call from a resident, I asked if my family was okay or if anyone got hurt, but they told me everyone was fine and that it was just the cat they couldn’t find.” Shima said that although he was only left with the clothes he has been wearing since Thursday, he was happy his family was alive. “On Thursday I couldn’t stop crying. I had thought I was all alone, but seeing all these people coming here, my heart it at peace. Just seeing them passing by to just say hello means a lot to me,” said Kgosiemang. Local councillor Elma Nel said the support by the community was extraordinary. They had created a WhatsApp group to offer donations and services. However, money in order in order to restore the house was needed. “We need at least R300000 to help this family fix their house and we are pleading to good Samaritans to donate whatever little they may have into the community account.” * People can donate into the Capital Park Community Police account; Nedbank Gezina 16035; number: 1129108090. Reference: Red Fire.