As a result of lack of money, the 20-year-old from Lotus Gardens did not realise her modelling dreams. However, she still sees a bright future for herself. Attending the event would have been the big break she had been waiting for during the 15 years of her modelling career, she said. Just last year, she stated she often lost modelling competitions because she was too short. She weighs 25kg and is 1.2m tall. “I love modelling with all my being, but the journey has not been easy for me because of my height. “Whenever one thinks of a model, skinny and tall ladies are the first (people) who come to mind.” However, she took her losses as a sign to continue and be better than ever. She was extremely thankful to judges who looked beyond her height and recognised her talent. She now wished and hoped other young people could learn from her journey and never give up. She was scheduled to compete in the overseas annual competition in July last year, but had no money to get there. At the time she told the Pretoria News that a good Samaritan had designed a dress for her to wear at the competition, but she needed funding for her flight and accommodation. In the end she did not get any sponsorship, and did not to go to New York. “I knocked on so many doors I even lost count, but nothing worked out. Then reality kicked in and I realised there was no way I was going to make it to the competition. “I was shattered by the realisation; my heart was torn, especially knowing that all my friends were going. I was literally the only one not going; so you can imagine how drained I was.” She is quick to add, however, that as soon as she realised that moping around would not get her anywhere, she decided to stand up, dust herself off and continue fighting for her dream. “I entered modelling competitions and volunteered at Tshwane FM where I now have a show which motivates people not to give up on their dreams. “It is through my journey that I've decided to motivate others when they are told they can't amount to much. I was so close to having my own dream come true, but lack of money stood in my way. "But I decided not to let that demotivate me.” Mbatha is studying public relations at Unisa and her radio talk show, Room 9-12, airs every Tuesday, Wednesday and Friday.