Over the weekend, the governing party held a summit with experts on land and law, and activists who worked on land as part of giving clearer meaning on the modalities of its resolution of land expropriation without compensation. The summit recommended that section 25 of the constitution be immediately tested in its current form while the current parliamentary constitutional review process to amend the section is supported. ANC NEC member Ronald Lamola said yesterday the party’s support for the review and amendment of the constitution was not aimed at attacking it but at enhancing its transformative capacity. He said the constitutional review process would end ambiguity and bring greater clarity to section 25 
(2)b of the constitution in relation to expropriation and land reform. “If it is found that the current legal formulation, including the constitution and any other law, impends or slows down effective land redistribution, in order to ensure the realisation of the principle of expropriation without compensation, it must be amended to bring that clarity,” Lamola said. The ANC’s national executive committee is meeting over this weekend where it is expected to deliberate and formally endorse the recommendations of the party’s land summit. The ruling party has been accused of betraying its historical values of constitutionalism by those opposed to expropriation of land without compensation, including the DA. This claim is rejected by Lamola, who has been delegated as the party’s spokesman on the land reform matter. “The ANC approaches this discussion on the section 25 and constitutionalism informed by its historical position that the ANC is an architect of constitutional democracy and our own constitutional democratic order. “The ANC will always therefore defend the constitution as a transformative document. “The ANC views the constitution of this country as a mandate for transformation and if we believe that if there is anything that might impede transformation, we must enhance the constitution,” Lamola said. He added that the immediate use of section 25 to press ahead with expropriating land would test the argument that the constitution in its current form permitted expropriation without compensation in certain circumstances. ANC head of economic transformation, Enoch Godongwana, admitted that the party had been mistakenly backing a market-led land reform programme since taking over 
government. He added that the programme was not in line with the principles of the current constitution. Godongwana also admitted that it took prominent lawyer Tembeka Ngcukaitobi’s presentation at the ANC land summit for him to realise the origins of the “willing buyer, willing seller” principle of land reform. “For instance, if you take the ‘willing buyer, willing seller’ (principle), you will look at every document of the ANC, and you will never find it. Now I got to know about it over this weekend as well. Where does this come from?” During Ngcukaitobi’s presentation, he made reference to the 1975 expropriation act which is based on market principles which advocates the practice of willing buyer, willing seller. “It is not based on the principles of the current constitution and on any ANC policy. But our government mistakenly followed that,” Godongwana said. President Cyril Ramaphosa described the land summit as a landmark occasion which gave full expression to the ANC’s resolution on the issue. “So, we are now moving forward as the ANC to our NEC. The NEC is going to deliberate on the outcomes of the land summit, whereafter we will be able to outline more fully and clearly the proposals that have come from the workshop that we had,” he said. Several experts on land, including Professor Lungisile Ntsebeza, the National Research Foundation’s reseach chairperson on land reform, has criticised the ANC for being ambiguous in articulating its resolution on the expropriation of land. The party emphasises that it did not want to compromise food security. Ntsebeza has been advocating for the amendment of the constitution and that the state should expropriate indebted and unused farms. Professor Shadrack Gutto has, however, accused the ANC and other politicians of playing politics by calling for constitutional amendments, adding that the only hindrance to expropriation was the interpretation, not the wording, of section 25. “That is the role of the courts and they have not taken this for interpretation since 1996. “We are being fooled around by politicians because the problem 
we have at the moment is the ability to interpret the section,”Gutto 
added.