They come to The State Theatre from Friday to Sunday next week, bringing to local revellers nothing but the best of what they have won awards for. For lovers of both genres; those who generally love a time out; people who appreciate good music; and in an atmosphere befitting of all of the above of excellence - this is the best way to start celebrations for Nelson Mandela's 100th birthday. Madiba not only spent five years in the city as the first citizen of the country, but he spent countless months in Pretoria hospitals, being treated by local doctors, and, after he died, being driven through the streets of the capital city, to allow residents a chance to bid him goodbye. The Union Buildings - only a stone’s throw from the State Theatre, played host to his body when it lay in state before being taken home to the Eastern Cape for burial. “The music of Ladysmith Black Mambazo is about spreading the message of peace, love and harmony throughout the world. “They are also working on discovering fresh talent through their programme called Ladysmith
mobile academy,” the State Theatre said. Said the State Theatre: “A favourite of the late great Nelson Mandela, Ladysmith Black Mambazo travelled with the future South African president, at his request, when he went to Oslo, Norway, to receive the Nobel Peace Prize, and one year later they were singing at the inauguration of the newly elected president right in Pretoria! “After many more special appearances with the icon, Mandela proclaimed the group South
Africa’s Cultural Ambassadors to the World.” The group has won five of the coveted international Grammy Awards, and come to town fresh from scoring their last one for their album
Shaka Zulu Revisited, and singing at Queen Elizabeth’s birthday in London. And as they seek to expose the people of the city to this cultural powerhouse, The State Theatre and the Pretoria News have five double tickets to give away to those who want to experience Ladysmith Black Mambazo. Performances are at 8pm on Friday June 1 and Saturday June 2 and at 3pm on Sunday. Readers can text PTANews.Ladysmith to 45607, to stand a chance to win tickets to the show.