Rapula Moatshe Schooling and business activities in some parts of Mabopane, Winterveld and Ga-Rankuwa were brought to a standstill on Tuesday  as residents embarked on the first day of a protest against poor service delivery in the areas. Angry residents barricaded roads with rocks, burning tyres and tree branches and vowed to continue with protests until Friday. Some children as young as six years were spotted in the streets, taking part in the protests by blocking the roads with debris. Most people said they were left stranded because the roads were impassable to buses and taxis. Demonstrators said at the heart of their demands was a lack of consultation by the City of Tshwane before it resolved to de-establish the Sandspruit Works Association (SWA). SWA was the city's entity responsible for provision of water services to residents before the DA-led administration took over in 2016. Many residents used to pay their water bills directly to the entity. Since its de-establishment last year, residents complained that they have been receiving unacceptably high municipal bills from the City. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  Residents, who spoke to the Pretoria News, complained about what they called "one bill", which was essentially the combination of their water bills with other utility bills such as refuse removal and sanitation. They vowed to continue with their protests until they receive a positive response from the City. Community leader Jomo Pholo said the City had previously claimed that residents were undercharged for their services since the dissolution of the SWA. He said the claim was not true. "The residents demanded the reopening of SWA due to a lack of consultation when it was de-established last year," he said. He said Msimanga responded to residents demands last year by writing off some of the debts. "He assumes that if he can write off debts people will be tempted to accept the de-establishment of SWA," Pholo said. He said numerous protests were previously staged at Tshwane House regarding the same issues. Utility Services' Darryl Moss said complaints by residents kept resurfacing despite them having been addressed. He said the de-establishment of the SWA was a council decision. "The entity belonged to the city and there was no legal basis that required us to consult anyone," Moss said. He said all political parties in council agreed to the de-establishment of the entity. Following its de-establishment, all the services it offered were incorporated within the City. He said the city saved the cost of running the SWA by about R400 million when it desolved the entity and got rid of its management. Regarding complaints regarding one bill, Moss said: "They used to get a bill from the SWA for water and the other from Tshwane for rates and taxes. Because the SWA no longer exists those two bills are now combined. They don't pay more because water tariffs are still the same and the rates services are still the same."