ZELDA VENTER THE former employee of retired SAPS Lieutenant-Colonel Danie Dreyer and owner of Jacaranda Funerals, Estelle Reddy, on Tuesday explained to the Gauteng High Court, Pretoria how about 50 kilograms of caustic soda flakes were thrown on to the lifeless body of Dreyer which was dumped in a manhole. Reddy said the flakes were supposed to dissolve the body and she assisted one of her co-accused to carry water to pour down the manhole so that the caustic soda “could do its job.” Reddy is facing a charge of murder and other related charges following the death of Dreyer during the 2016 Easter Weekend. Dreyer was killed in his Villieria home, after which his body was dumped in a manhole in Capital Park. Reddy, 36, and her co-accused, Gerhardus Papenfus, 42, Kevin Johnson (also known as Zulu), 31, and Ruvan Furst ( known as Malak), 42, all pleaded not guilty. Reddy claimed that Papenfus was the mastermind behind the killing and that she merely assisted in dumping the body and getting rid of the bloody evidence. She took the witness stand and several times said she was terrified of Papenfus and she did not dare to go against his will. According to Reddy, Papenfus was a violent gangster who also threatened her with violence. She said given the amount of blood in Dreyer’s bedroom, she had no doubt that he was dangerous. Reddy, who had befriended Papenfus a few months prior to the killing, said she was not home when Dreyer was killed. She and her young child lived in Dreyer’s house at the time, as she worked for him. Reddy said Papenfus wanted to get out of the “gangster trade” and start a lawful business. They agreed to go into business together, but he urgently needed some money. She told him to ask Dreyer for some money, but Dreyer refused to give it and Papenfus was furious. Reddy said she went to an engagement party in Laudium over the Easter weekend. Reddy said Papenfus phoned her while she was there and asked for Dreyer’s bank account pin code. Papenfus later fetched her from the party in Dreyer’s car. Both Zulu and Malak were in the car. She said Papenfus told her that Dreyer “had moved” - that he was dead. The cause of death is not clear as Dreyer’s body, when it was eventually recovered days later, was too decomposed to make a finding. A pathologist, however, said he did not die of natural causes. Reddy meanwhile testified that she was so afraid of Papenfus that she agreed to help him get rid of the body. “I never actually saw the body, as it was already rolled-up in bedding when I got to the bedroom.’ But she said she and her co-accused rolled the body into a carpet and transported it to Capital Park, where it was dumped in a manhole. “He threw the body into the manhole and told me and Zulu to go down into the hole to take some of the bedding off the body so that the acid could reach the body. I did this because I was afraid of him.” Reddy testified that they later went back to Dreyer’s bedroom, where she assisted in burning the room as Papenfus wanted to get rid of the evidence. “I was not going to argue with him about anything, as I was too afraid of him.” Reddy, however, a few days later went to the police where she told them that Dreyer had been murdered. She took the police to his house and showed them the burnt-out bedroom and then took them to Papenfus’ home, where he was arrested. Reddy, who has been in custody since 2016, was in tears as her estranged husband brought their toddler son to court on Tuesday to greet his mother. Reddy hugged the child in the dock shortly before she was led down to the holding cells. Proceeding