This follows a complaint to the programming committee yesterday that despite months of trying to get the committee to set up the inquiry, this has not happened. House chairman Cedric Frolick and ANC chief whip Jackson Mthembu said they expected the response from the committee soon. Mthembu said they have directed the committee to act on the matter. DA chief whip John Steenhuisen said he had been urging the committee to set up the inquiry, but its chairperson Mathole Motshekga has not responded. Steenhuisen said he also wanted to make presentations to the justice committee on why they wanted Mkhwebane to be removed from office. “Deputy Speaker (Lechesa Tsenoli) I wrote a letter in terms of the Public Protector Act in which I requested an inquiry into the fitness of the public protector and it’s been several months,” said Steenhuisen. “I don’t think the committee should have the authority over it because of the gravity of the matter,” he said. He requested that the programming committee ask Motshekga when he would launch the inquiry. He said despite repeated attempts to get Motshekga’s attention he has been ignored by the committee. He said he should be allowed to make representations to the justice committee on why Mkhwebane was not fit to hold office. Frolick said he had raised the issue with Motshekga and the justice committee chairman would give him a report next week. Mthembu weighed in and said Steenhuisen must be allowed to make presentations to the justice committee because he was a complainant against Mkhwebane. He said that was the directive they gave to the committee. Motshekga could not be reached for comment yesterday. This is the second time that the DA has tabled a motion in Parliament to remove Mkhwebane. This followed her reports into CIEX, hired to probe government’s bailout of Bankorp which was subsequently absorbed into Absa, where the North Gauteng High Court in Pretoria ruled against her. In her last appearance in Parliament, Mkhwebane told the justice committee of a mounting legal bill against her.