Mayoral spokesperson Samkelo Mgobozi said the City took the concerns of the association very seriously. He said it wanted to restore their confidence and work with them to make the city better. He said the City also looked beyond Waltloo and had identified six other industrial nodes that would be consulted to ensure that Tshwane businesspeople received adequate services to keep their areas of operation attractive for business and economic opportunities. Waltloo Industrial Association spokesperson Marcus Venter said the group was willing to meet municipal leaders next week to hear how they planned to assist local businesspeople who created jobs in Tshwane. The first meeting would help the group and city executives familiarise themselves with each other, and every executive’s responsibilities, in order to establish a professional relationship. The association was furious with the City for what it called the neglect of the area for the last two-and-a-half years over the unmaintained industrial area, which experienced frequent water and power interruptions that affected business negatively. Company owners said poor maintenance of infrastructure had caused 30% of them to abandon the area and take their businesses elsewhere. The businesspeople had said they were prepared to work with the community of Ward 43 to identify an independent candidate to challenge the DA councillor in the next local government elections in 2021. Venter said although it was still too early to tell, it was possible the meeting could be the first correct step the City had taken in restoring their confidence in the DA-led administration. Successful implementation of agreements could end the group’s desires for an independent ward councillor, he said. “What we want is a responsive ward councillor who will work with us to ensure this place remains attractive for business. We will not be ridiculous; we understand something could take time, but at least we want to see progress and have time frames. We know that installing streetlights could take time, but things like visible police in the area can happen now, because crime is bad here.” Venter said the group had prioritised the establishment of a reliable contact line with the City, the installation of working streetlights, repair of roads and the traffic access point at the corner of Zasm Street and Waltloo Road. It also wanted the elimination of illegal dumping sites and the repair of problematic and unsafe electricity points.