The league victors paraded their eighth league trophy, while hundreds of fans lined up to see them in the flesh and celebrate their auspicious title. Supporters came decked out in the team's yellow home shirts, while hundreds of yellow and green flags were waved. Some fans had their faces painted in the club colours. Not even the chilly weather could deter the fiery spirit of die-hard supporters from seeing their heroes. Fans screamed at the top of their lungs for possibly the most impressive player of the season and the club’s top goal scorer, Percy Tau. Some supporters scrambled to take selfies with the players. With the streets so tightly packed, some brave fans clambered on to rooftops to get a better view and others hung out of windows to salute their heroes. Supporters began congregating hours before the scheduled 3pm stop at Tshwane University of Technology in Pretoria West. Masandawana, as the club is affectionately known, won the coveted prize after amassing 60 points. During their trailblazing campaign, Pitso Mosimane’s charges won 18 games, lost six and drew 
six times while scoring 49 goals. Skipper Hlompo Kekana admitted that the magnitude of what the “Brazilians” had achieved finally sunk in during the parade. “The people of the city all had such happy faces,” said Kekana, who contributed immensely during the team's charge to the title. “From seeing that, it has for the first time sunk in just what an incredible achievement it is by the team. The fans chanting Ka bo Yellow, Ka bo Yellow really moved me,” Kekana said. The victory parade started in Nellmapius and weaved its way around Mamelodi, Soshanguve and ended at the university, where a stage had been set up for the players to show off the trophy. “If it wasn’t for you we wouldn’t be here. You the fans mean more to us than you’ll ever know. You are the 12th player on the field in every game,” said Mosimane. Tomorrow, Sundowns will welcome Spanish champions Barcelona at FNB Stadium near Soweto in an international friendly.  The clash will form part of the Nelson Mandela centenary 
celebrations. This will be Barcelona's second visit to South Africa. The last time they were here in 2017, they beat Sundowns 2-1. The match will kick off at 6.15pm. “As always, we are going to bring our A game,” said Kekana.