The South African Municipal Workers Union led a  march to Tshwane House of hundreds of waste collectors and drivers who sought to voice their frustrations to mayor Solly Msimanga on Monday. Participants said they were permanently employed by the metro, but had over the years had to share the responsibility with private service providers. They suggested the City axed the service providers to show it did not condone corruption and wasteful expenditure. The worker further claimed there was corruption and collusion between senior City's waste management department officials and service providers which was depleting municipal coffers. The workers claimed some of these service providers used the City fleet and workers to collect waste. “There is serious corruption, and the mayor was told about it by us last year. “We used to be able to collect waste with only 40 trucks, but now there are 150 trucks doing the same job. By 10am, we are done collecting waste because there are lots of service providers working with us. This is a huge cost to the City that benefits corrupt officials. “We want management in the waste management department to be replaced. We suspect they are getting kickbacks. They are using outsourced service providers even in cases where they are not necessary. We want the City to conduct lifestyle audits on those senior officials,” said worker Salome Mashishi. The union said the workers had also not received personal protective equipment such as safety gloves, boots and uniforms for years despite the law stating that as a prerequisite. The march was also to highlight workers'  demands for equal benefits, including medical aid. They said other City workers had those benefits, while they did not. The union's Mothwa Matlala said: “The City has been outsourcing waste management over the past couple of years. Waste collection has always been a big and integral part of municipal functions. The DA administration has intensified the outsourcing of waste management despite opposition from workers.” Workers said they feared that the City intended to convert them into contract workers who would eventually work for the service providers. They vowed to fight for their jobs and ensure that all contract workers hired by service providers were absorbed by the City. The workers gave the City 14 days to respond to their memorandum, which was accepted by municipal manager Dr Moeketsi Mosola. He promised to meet the workers tomorrow together with Msimanga, to air some of their frustrations. “You are very important to me and the City. Without you working, the City cannot perform many of its functions. I have been meeting with your leaders every quarter because I wanted to know your challenges. Please be patient and give us a bit of time to resolve some of these issues,” he told the crowd.