They spoke after the suspension of three officers and transfer of two others yesterday on the orders of Community Safety MEC Sizakele Nkosi-Malobane. The officers reportedly dragged their feet in looking for the autistic child when her family reported her missing. A few days later the 10-year-old girl was found dead. Yesterday the family acknowledged the government’s efforts to reprimand the officers who mishandled their case, but believe more could be done. Family representative Lebogang Storom said: “We need to look at the bigger picture. The police station does not have enough patrol cars, sniffer dogs, extra staff and so forth. They need more resources to help then with their intelligence.” He said much more needed to be done for the community to stop this from recurring. “This is an institutional issue that needs to be dealt with by the highest level of policing, the minister.” Storom said they still felt a massive void since Katli’s funeral and it wasn’t getting any better. He said his sister and Katli’s mother, Thabang, were receiving professional help. On Saturday Nkosi-Malobane, accompanied by her head of department Yoliswa Makhasi and local leadership visited the Mamelodi West community as part of enhancing community policing relations. They retraced the steps believed to have been taken by the child, who was non-verbal, with Nkosi-Malobane saying it was not possible she had walked from home to the river on her own, when even she, a grown-up, had struggled along the route. Nkosi-Malobane started off by laying a wreath at Moretele River where the body was discovered. She said she was disappointment in the way the police handled the case, and therefore saw it fit to put in place drastic measures to ensure that the same does not happen in future. The chairperson of the Unica School of Autism’s governing body, Selby Bokaba, said the measures provided little, but also acknowledged it was a step in the right direction. “When the front line staff don't want to help there should always be superiors on standby to intervene immediately. This is the only way to stop this from recurring,” he said.