The hotel’s Jacaranda Room was filled with women from all nine provinces, who had gathered to bid farewell to the project they had been involved in since 2016. Hosted by the Water Research Commission, mentees gave testimonies about the project, saying it was more than they had expected. While some shared their disappointment, others spoke of their success stories. But all had one plea in common: that the Water Research Commission and the Department of Water and Sanitation should increase the time frame of the project as they were close to realising their dream. The project catered for both professionals and start-up entrepreneurs, who were all allocated mentors throughout the project. While some suggested there should be improvements in certain areas in the project, others sang nothing but praises. Even so, all mentees had one thing at heart, and that was to better their communities. Among the beneficiaries was Lillian Dikgole from Chantelle, north of the city, and Mmathebe More from Mamelodi. Like many women in the room, they wanted to bring change to communities through water and sanitation projects. “I decided to be part of this programme because I saw that there was a dire need for water and sanitation in our communities. The city has a great challenge of sewage, and as a result areas are filled with awful smells due to blocked drains,” Dikgole said. She mentioned that her main aim and focus was to bring relief to residents in Brits as she heard they did not receive their water from taps as they were contaminated. “Community members actually have to buy water and for those who do not have money they have no choice but to drink the contaminated water. “I just want the department to give us women tenders to bring relief to these people because we have skills and all we need are resources and back-up from our departments,” she added. Research manager Virginia Molose at the Water Research Commission said this was an empowerment project, run over three years and funded by the Department of Water and Sanitation, with the Water Research Commission being the implementing agent. The project had three programmes: women in a water mentorship project, an incubator entrepreneurship project and professional women in the water industry and water forum. Molose said the intention of the project was to bring transformation in the water sector as it was male-dominated, with male-owned enterprises doing the bulk of the work. “As much as there was a call for the project to run longer, we believe the commission has given these projects some feet to run with. “The fact that these women were paired with mentors means they have partners for life, they have been introduced to mentor networks that they could tap into at any time of the day. As much as we might no longer have the formal sessions anymore, the programme will run elsewhere on its own,” Molose said.