The crippling industrial bus strike that left hundreds of thousands of commuters stranded has been called off. Yesterday, Transport Omnibus Workers Union (Towu) spokesperson Tony Franks confirmed that an agreement had been signed by two of the employers associations. They are the South African Bus Employers Association and Commuter Bus Employers Organisation (Cobeo). The South African Transport and Allied Workers’ Union, Transport and Allied Workers Union of SA , Towu, National Union of Metalworkers of SA  and Tirisano Transport Workers Union have also signed. Franks said: “The strike has been called off and now we are communicating it to all members.” Cobeo spokesperson Meshack Ramela said employers expected all workers to report to duty today. “They should be reporting to duty as per their shifts,” he said. The bus industry strike, which started on April 18, was nearing its fourth week in action. It followed a deadlock in three months of negotiations where unions called for a 12% across the board increase while employers offered only 8%. Through a series of negotiations and interventions by both Minister of Labour Mildred Oliphant and Minister of Transport Blade Nzimande, unions lowered their demand to 9% which was later put on the table by employers for this year. Earlier this week, unions indicated that they were ready to reach an agreement after employers had offered 9% increase for this year and an 8% increase for 2019. However, the matter of contention was when the increases would be put in effect. The unions wanted the increment to be effective from April 1, but employers said the increase would be put in effect from the date on which the agreement is signed. Towu spokesperson Chris Fredericks said: “The employers are reluctant to backdate payment. The agreement has always been for April and not May. “This is nothing new to employers,” he said. Ramela said the issue regarding the backpay had been sorted. “The unions came back and modified their demand. It was signed on the basis that it would be back pay but not on wage benefits. “We will back pay from April 1 to April 17 only. Then the increment goes in effect from date of signing. Labour law expert Michael Bagraim said unions have not put money aside in order to allow a disbursement to be paid to striking workers. “The law is clear in that everyone on strike receives no pay. Furthermore, there is no right to demand backpay for the time while the workers were not working. “This is a challenge to all trade unions to at least start putting aside some monies so as to ensure that their members are at least partially protected during strike action,” he said.