They were speaking during the first day of the latest round of hearings into racism, sexism and discrimination at the university. They described their “white boss” Professor Peter Havenga as their hero. The workers said accusations made about Havenga, the executive director: academic planner, were meant to divert from other more serious issues of black on black racism at the institution. Masello Moekoa, administrative assistant in the directorate of programme accreditation and registration department of academic planning, accused her boss Alice Mkuzangwe - one of three black women accusing Havenga of making the working environment unbearable for black women in his department - of lying. She said some junior staff and managers suffered from the allegations made against Havenga by Mkuzangwe; academic information system manager Bayanda Malgas; and, director of language services Rose Negota. Reading a statement on her and other employees’ behalf, Moekoa said they were bullied by the black women who claimed harassment and racism in the media. She told the commission of the horrible work conditions they suffered under Mkuzangwe’s leadership throughout the years. The bullying incidents Moekoa presented dated back to 2013. “Firstly, we were not allowed to be friends with each other or eat in our offices, and we were forced to keep our office doors open even in winter. “These black women who complained about bullying are actually the perpetrators of bullying on black people. "We have complained numerous times but unfortunately, as much as Professor Mandla Makhanya preaches policy and principles, that did not apply to us because he failed to protect us." She described Mkuzangwe as a hostile manager. She would disapprove annual leave applications without any explanation, she said. “Working under Mkuzangwe was so toxic that I even wanted to quit my job, but my colleagues advised me otherwise. "I remember she instructed me to always arrive at work at 7.30am just so I could ensure her office was properly dusted and cleaned before she came to work. “I remember the one time I vomited after having a fruit salad for lunch. When my colleague told Mkuzangwe I was not feeling well and asked if I could be excused from work, she refused, saying I looked fine to her.” Moekoa told the commission they were shocked by the recent protest by members of Black Forum against the only man who defended them - Havenga. She also listed other incidents that some of her colleagues had to endure under Mkuzangwe and Malgas. The claims by Moekoa were heavily supported by those who filled the Bamboo Auditorium and others scheduled to appear before the commission. Initially, the black women had alleged to have locked themselves in their offices for fear of harassment, intimidation and racial discrimination by their fellow white executive. They alleged that Havenga made their lives difficult, leaving them with no option but to report him to the police earlier this year. In addition, they obtained protection orders from the Pretoria Magistrate’s Court in a bid to keep him away. However, Havenga made it clear during his presentation that he was on special leave as the institution said it could not guarantee his safety on campus. The commission is scheduled to run until tomorrow.