Unlike most street vendors who normally put on a simple T-shirt, a pair of trousers and flip flops, one would swear Mashele was the executive of a company with all the suits he wears every day. And recently it was business as usual for the 38-year-old Soshanguve man who, dressed in a three-piece suit, stood on the busy corner of Molefe Makinta Highway loudly and vibrantly selling his ware in a stack of colourful containers. Braving the heat, he shouted “eh Monate achar” with motorists stopping to look at him in awe and almost causing a traffic jam as they drove past. Others parked by the side of the road to buy his atchar for R20 while others hooted for him. He took some time to speak to the Pretoria News and emphasised the significance of presentation for small business owners like himself. He said it was how he dressed that attracted most of his customers. Sales improved drastically, he said. “I take this as my day-to-day job and not just a business. “It doesn’t mean when I sell atchar people must see me with oily clothes, just like mechanics don’t have to be in oily overalls all the time. “Presentation is very important and so is marketing your brand.” People needed to start putting South African products on the map and this, he said, was the perfect opportunity. “Atchar is a South African product just like the vuvuzela, but the problem is we just don’t like uplifting our products. So God chose me to be the one who would represent atchar.” He wakes up early every morning to get all the necessary ingredients, prepares them, dresses up neatly and then at around 4pm he makes his way to the corner. The father of one said his product was on demand especially from sphahlo establishments. “I have customers from Soweto, from the Vaal and I have customers from other parts of the country. I have reached the tourist attraction point. “You know I have never been so happy in my life and a lot of people love me, they love my atchar and how I represent myself. “I put a smile on people’s faces.” As in many black communities whistle-blowing represents an alert to danger so he tapped into that trend, and that’s how his business started. “I would blow a whistle when I started three years ago. It was during Thoko Didiza’s time where people didn’t want her as mayor, so whenever they heard a whistle they would quickly run outside because they knew it was time for looting and causing trouble.” He said he would tell whoever came out running that he was selling the delicacy, and that’s how his fame came about. The secret, he said, was the best ingredients he put into his atchar, and if one approached him on their birthday he shares it. He has big dreams for his brand and plans to release a song about it soon, featuring Dr Malinga. He often gets tips for how he dresses and has been getting gigs directing events. And when the team from the Pretoria News dipped their bread in Mashele’s “pot-o-gold” it was to discover that is was worth it, and more.