This is the aim of the Pan African Parliament (PAP), made up of 255 members representing 55 African Union states, which is currently sitting in Midrand. On Monday, EFF leader Julius Malema and four other South African MPs - National Council of Provinces (NCOP) chairperson Thandi Modise, Thoko Didiza, Sandy Kalyan (DA) and Mandla Mandela - were sworn in as PAP members. Also, during the session, Morocco’s membership was formalised, and its five MPs were sworn in. The days ahead will see the election of new office bearers, a president and four vice-presidents, with hopefuls representing different geographic regions of the continent. The current president is Roger Nkodo Dang, of Cameroon, who is standing for re-election, while the Southern African Development Community (SADC) has endorsed Zimbabwe senator Chief Fortune Charumbira’s bid. A leader is yet to come from the north or the southern regions and seasoned Egyptian politician Moustafa El Gendy, who represents the north, believes he is best suited for the position at this time in the continent’s history. On the sidelines of the PAP session yesterday, he recalled the intention of the PAP - which held its first session 14 years ago - to ensure that all people of Africa become fully involved in the integration and economic development of the continent. The first step, said El Gendy, who speaks three of the continent’s languages - Arabic, English and French - was to liberate its states from their colonial pasts; the next is to strive for a united states; one in which Africans make decisions which are “100% African” about their future. A good starting point is the recent agreement to create the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA), a decision reached by AU members in Kigali, Rwanda, in March. El Gendy believes the PAP should have legislative powers which could be used to create a single African investment law, which would benefit the single market for goods and services on the continent. Next up on his agenda is for the PAP to pull together in the fight against terrorism. Many countries are affected by terrorism but the enemy is the same, he said, and the only way to face it was together. He said the PAP should find issues on which member countries agreed - such as the fight against terrorism, or the distribution of water - and work together to solve them. Why should a parliamentarian from another region want to support a leadership bid from Egypt, a country which has known its own turmoil in recent years? For El Gendy, although he could not be more proudly Egyptian, in the context of this forum he makes it clear he represents not only his country but the north, as well as the interests of all 1.28 billion Africans. He would prefer to see the continent as quadrants (north-west, north-east, south-east and south-west) in which each has something to give and each has something it needs to receive from the others, and together can ensure that no African is without food, water or shelter. He questions why an African leaves a village for the city, and then crosses a desert to end up in a refugee camp in Europe. “We need to go back to the root of the problem: what must be fixed in the village.” El Gendy describes himself as a “Tahir boy”, a reference to the square in Cairo which became a symbol of the 2011 revolution which unseated former Egyptian president Hosni Mubarak and saw Abdel Fattah el-Sisi take office in 2014. He said the initiative he led to improve co-operation among the Nile Basin countries and reach understanding on issues such as water, and agriculture will stand him in good stead for the top job at the PAP, and said he believes in the importance of transparency and clean governance. In his youth, he was involved in tourism, and started a Tourism for Development initiative, where money collected from hotels is used for developmental projects. It is his interest in tourism which has led him ask why the PAP is based in Midrand, and not in a city such as Cape Town which has parliamentary infrastructure which could be used for PAP meetings. As a leader in PAP it was a shame that the members, who come from across the continent, are “locked in their hotel rooms at night”, because they are fearful to venture out beyond the Mall of Africa. He said he would raise the question of the need to host the African parliament in a more conducive environment so that members had a better personal experience but also so they could become brand ambassadors for South Africa.