JAMES MAHLOKWANE  Global e-hailing service provider, Uber, this morning officially launched an advanced safety app, Aura, following a fruitful partnership between Uber and Aura to address safety concerns raised by drivers.  Uber began working with Aura back in 2016 to continue strengthening its security measures after numerous violent confrontations between e-hailing service providers and members of the metered taxi industry.  The partnership produced the Aura smart device application that sought to upgrade the slower emergency hotline with an on-the-app button that instantly called for help from leading private security companies.  The application available for drivers on both android and apple devices would enable them to urgently request help from the popular and smaller suburb security companies depending on who was closest to the victim at the time of the incident.  Uber said this meant that drivers would now be protected by armed private security officers working in different geographical areas for 24 hours a day.  Although Uber and Aura could not release the names of the leading private security companies for security reasons, they were clear that the idea to use them was because there were more private security officers than police officers in South Africa. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.   These private security officers worked within geographical parameters and that meant they would, in most cases, be closest to the person calling for help than members of the South African Police Services (Saps).  Uber wanted this app to assure its drivers that their safety was highly prioritised. However, on the normal Uber app, part of ensuring that passengers felt safe not just from external attackers but the drivers, was the creation of the share trip functionality, which allowed passengers to share their trips with other people.  The other person would receive a link which would would allow him or her to view the drivers details, including his picture, and then monitor the trip in its entirety, which can also be seen by the passenger before the trip starts.  Uber Sub-Saharan Africa General Manager Alon Lits said his wife used the share trip functionality when she travelled by Uber. This, he said, made her feel safe because someone who cared about her monitored her trip as she travelled.  List, however, emphasised that since 2013, Uber has been doing background checks through a system linked to a police database on all potential drivers to ensure that the people who drove its clients could be trusted before they were hired.  Lits said, at the moment, Uber allowed passengers and drivers to rate each other after trips. This provided Uber with crucial information about each individual passenger and client's behavior.  According to Lits, the Aura application was tested for some time and it proved that it allowed Uber to react to each panic call within two minutes. What made the app better than calling a helpline was that the app logged crucial information about the driver and the trip automatically into the system, such as the drivers whereabouts. Subsequently, armed response personnel received sufficient information to react.