ZELDA VENTER HE slit her throat with a butcher's knife. This was no ordinary murder and he should be removed from the streets for a very long time. This was the argument of the prosecution on Wednesday, which asked the Gauteng High Court, Pretoria, to show no mercy to girlfriend murderer Johan Mokoena. The 44-year-old Mokoena this week pleaded guilty to “stabbing” his girlfriend and mother of his child, Nthabiseng Manko, to death. But pictures handed to court yesterday showed that it was much more than a stabbing - the woman suffered a 7cm slit to her throat. Prosecutor Esther Mnguni argued that it was more like he had slaughtered her. To make matters worse, the woman was killed in front of her then one-year-old child. Mokoena later handed the child, covered in her mother’s blood, to Manko’s family. Mokoena told the court that “it was all a big mistake.” He said he was angry as he caught another man in her bedroom when he arrived at their Devon home on March 20, 2016. He said Manko told him it was a relative, but he said he had never met “this relative”  He even became more suspicious when the man fled through the window. Pictures of the crime scene, however, showed that all the windows were closed. Mnguni said there was never a strange man in the house and that this version was a lie. Manko’s mother went to the house shortly before the killing and she found her daughter in the kitchen, cooking for her brandy-drinking partner. Pictures handed to court showed Manko half naked on the bed, facing upwards, with a slit throat. Mnguni said clearly something happened shortly before the killing and Mokoena was refusing to tell the court what had transpired. It was also clear from the pictures that Manko did not expect the attack on her, as she lay relaxed on the bed, with one leg bent. After killing her, he left her on the bed and placed the murder weapon next to her body. He then took their daughter to Manko’s family, before he gave himself up to the police. He walked into the police station with his bloodstained shirt on. Mokoena testified in mitigation of sentence, that he acted in a fit of anger as he suspected that Manko two timed him. “I was angry my Lord,” he explained. It transpired that Mokoena was some years earlier sentenced to an effective three years imprisonment for raping his previous girlfriend. He only spent a year and a half in jail before he was released on parole. Mnguni said this showed that Mokoena had no respect for women She said the police did not keep statistics for femicide murders - intimate killings by men of their female partners - but she said this type of crime was rife in this country. She said police crime statistics showed that between April and December 2016, there were 14 333 murders in South Africa, of which 1 730 of the victims were women. Half of this total were women who were murdered by their partners. Mnguni said between January and March this year, 67 cases were brought before this court, of which nine were femicides. This term, running from April to June 29, 59 criminal matters have been enrolled, of which nine were again femicides. She said statistics showed that femicides were five times more rife in South Africa than anywhere else in the world. Mnguni said the court had a duty to send out a message that especially this type of crime will not be tolerated. Mokoena is due to be sentenced on Friday.