A prominent female writer once lambasted the ANCWL as “mascots of patriarchy and chauvinism” shortly after the badly burnt body of 22-year-old Karabo Mokoena was discovered in a Sandton veld ditch in May last year. The current leadership of the league, led by its president Bathabile Dlamini, was also slammed in October 2015 for embarking on a strike to the Union Buildings in defence of former president Jacob Zuma’s “dignity”. Defending the league’s march in protection of Zuma, amid condemnation at not acting against widespread patriarchy and women abuse, Dlamini said  the ANCWL critics should not be biased in their assessment of the organisation. “Everyone is saying the ANCWL is defending a man and not defending other women. They say there are issues that affect women that we have not acted on. They have short memories,” she said in 2015. “Immediately after our election, we were part of the march to do with Oscar Pistorius. Also, we are from the conference which took a decision that was on fighting violence against women and children.” The Pistorius murder case was another high-profile event, where the ANCWL was front and centre in its support of the family of Reeva Steenkamp, who was killed by the former acclaimed athlete. During the 12 days of the Sandile Mantsoe trial into the murder of his former girlfriend Mokoena, the league was again a prominent feature in support of the slain young woman’s family. Mpesi Hadebe, ANCWL chairperson of the Vuyani Mabaxa branch in Diepkloof, Soweto, rebuffed assertions that the league was only visible at prominent cases such as the Mantsoe and Pistorius trials. “It is absolutely rubbish that the ANCWL only attends court cases where there is a huge amount of media coverage. “Truth be told, there are many cases which we attend and families we support where the media are not present. Maybe the media and the critics are not reporting factually when they speak about the support we grant families in distress,” Hadebe said. She was speaking after Mantsoe was found guilty of assault with the intention to cause grievous bodily harm, murder and attempting to defeat the ends of justice. “For example, last month we were at the Protea Magistrate’s Court to support families affected by the patroller from AB Xuma Primary School in Soweto accused of molesting dozens of schoolgirls. “There were no media practitioners at the time to cover the story, but we were there. This is why I am saying that, sometimes, the media attend cases where the league is represented, and other times the media aren’t there,” she added. Hadebe, who is also the secretary of the ANCWL in Zone 10, which covers Diepkloof where the Mokoena family is based, said it was the ethos of the league to be active in the area they are represented in. “When we get information that there is alleged abuse of a woman or a child, we go to the families immediately. “As the ANCWL we find the abuse and killing of women and children totally reprehensible. This was a key factor in us coming to offer our unconditional support to the Mokoena family. “This is because, as the league, we don’t understand why women and children should be brutally abused and killed,” Hadebe emphasised. Nandi Mayathula Khoza, who attended the Mantsoe trial in her ANCWL regalia from the first day right, said she was concerned about the spike in the levels of femicide, the killing of women or girl children because of their gender. “These events place men as predominant perpetrators, and that, unfortunately, strengthens the belief that women and children are at greater risk of being murdered in familiar environments by men known to them,” Mayathula Khoza said.