His provincial executive committee was dealt another blow at the weekend when the ANC’s national executive committee refused to choose any of the three names sent by the structure as possible successors of Mahumapelo. Acting provincial secretary and Speaker of the provincial legislature Susan Dantjie, Agriculture MEC Manketsi Tlhape and former Education MEC Johannes Tselapedi - all considered to be Mahumapelo’s close allies - were recommended as candidates by the PEC. ANC secretary-general Ace Magashule said the party’s top brass wanted to consult other political leaders in the province instead of choosing from the three names to avoid divisions. “The three names were presented to us. We felt that we need more time to look at all this, engage comrades in the province and engage our alliance partners (SACP and Cosatu) and come to a determination which will unite the organisation,” Magashule said. In terms of the ANC constitution, PECs are empowered with coming up with three names from which the NEC must decide who becomes a premier. Magashule said the NEC did not want to rush to the decision of choosing who gets to head the administration of the platinum province. “We want to give ourselves (moe time) and satisfy ourselves more so that when we come with the name we have taken everybody on board. "There is work in progress and I'm sure that is what we'll be doing. We will resolve this matter as soon as possible,” he said. While promising to punish those who continued to be entangled in factional battles, the party said it would reject members who come to its headquarters before approaching lower structures when they are aggrieved. “We have noted the fact that everybody rushes to head office. We are actually saying the ANC is calling upon its members to follow organisational processes. "If there are disputes, people must start from their branches, the region and province before they even come to the national head office. "We will make sure that as people come here, we refer them back to the structures so that we are organisational in our approach,” he said. He hailed the Gauteng ANC as the most stable and united structure, adding that other provinces had to learn from it. “There is complete stability there. That is the process we are adopting, learning from how Gauteng is solving some of its problems. We have encouraged some of our provinces to do the same,” Magashule said. Mahumapelo, however, was unlikely to see his PEC being dissolved as the NEC did not discuss disbandment of the provincial executive. Magashule also defended the structure, indicating that it was chosen through election by structures. “Those people are elected, like us, and they are doing their part,” he said.