But, little or nothing is reported about the vulnerable people who daily walk the long corridors of our courts in search of justice. The desperate mother who appealed a jail sentence meted out in the lower court a few years ago for stealing medicine for her sick child came to mind last week, as I was once again reminded just how vulnerable the ordinary citizen is before the law. The mother had her jail sentence suspended on appeal, but she is still defined by her criminal conviction. Then there was the man called Lucky, who pitched up at our office near the High Court. My first reaction was irritation because I was busy. But I listened as he told me his wife died in a public hospital 11 years ago. Although he could barely afford it, he approached a law firm in Pretoria to help him find justice, as he believed that negligence had played a part in his wife’s death. The problem was that his case was dragging on, and nobody was telling him what was happening. The law, especially when it comes to damages claims, does have a way of dragging on, sometimes for years, before there is an outcome. Lucky, however, did not understand this as his lawyers had not explained the processes to him. He came to me armed with an order he received where his case was, once again, postponed. The court ordered the MEC for Health to pay the legal costs occasioned by the postponement. Lucky thought that the court had ordered that the MEC must pay him. No amount of explaining from me helped, and he said his lawyers did not take his calls. I am not sure how further to help him. He is just one of many who remain in the dark as lawyers are simply so busy rushing from one case to the next, and postponements are the order of the day. I once again witnessed what an outstanding NGO Lawyers for Human Rights is, especially its compassion to its clients who it represents cost-free. LHR lawyers were there to support members of the Marievale community who were illegally evicted from the army base and keep them informed every step of the way about progress in their case against the SANDF. The lawyers involved, Louise du Plessis and Jacob van Garderen, announced their legal victory last week - but also that this may not be the end of the matter as the SANDF may appeal. I thought, if only Lucky, a paying client, had LHR fighting in his corner. A court week is never without a bit of drama inside or out. Last Thursday disgruntled members of the SANDF Veterans Association kept staff and lawyers hostage for more than 30 minutes because they were unhappy about a case being postponed. Everyday life at court is far from the glitzy drama scenes one watches on TV. Inside the stark brick building, many horrors have been heard and many tears have been shed, and there have been amazing scenes of forgiveness. One such case was that of John Mathe, the man accused of stabbing his mother to death and chopping up her body. He admitted that he killed his mother, and the bloody evidence bore witness to his act, but he said it was voices inside his head which made him do it. Mathe looks like a perfectly normal person, and dressed in a blue overall he said he loved his mother very much. His sister testified in his defence, and she seemed to have forgiven him, even going to see him in prison to understand these voices which spoke to him. In a court next door, a young mother, Estelle Reddy, was explaining why she had helped to dump the body of her former lover, Danie Dreyer, in a manhole and why she bought sodium hydroxide (caustic soda) to throw over his body. She said she was afraid of her co-accused. Then there was the scene where she broke down because her estranged husband had brought their young son to court to see her during a break. Then there was the bizarre incident, where an old woman walked into court and threw a handful of coins at Judge Cassim Sardiwalla. She simply walked out, saying “My God made me do it”. It’s never dull and I look forward to what this week brings. In this weekly feature, High Court reporter Zelda Venter reflects on the past week in court and other legal issues in the public domain. The opinions are her own. @ZeldaVenter; zelda.venter@inl.co.za.