The woman, Felicia Tsuene, turned to the Gauteng High Court, Pretoria, for an order declaring that she was validly married to Adyeanji Malindi in terms of customary law. She also wanted an order declaring invalid the civil marriage Malindi had later entered into with Elsie Malindi. While Tsuene, in papers before the court, explained how her late husband's representatives paid lobola and that the customary rituals were completed to seal the marriage, both the latest “wife” and Malindi's mother, Maud Koffman, were adamant that there was no valid union. Tsuene stated that she and the deceased were married by customary union on November1, 1998, and that they had a child together. She said that when their marriage was sealed, both she and her late husband's families were present. However, the deceased, who died in 2016, in 2008 entered into a civil union with Elsie. Both the latter and the mother of the deceased stated in court papers that the deceased was validly married to Elsie when he died. The mother said she had not attended the negotiations of the “purported marriage” between her son and Tsuene, nor was she there when the customary union was celebrated. She further said that her son's family did not authorise anyone to negotiate lobola on his behalf. Acting Judge SS Madiba said it was strange that the mother of the deceased was not involved in this important occasion in her son's life. He said no reasons were given as to why she was not there. The deceased's aunt said she had represented the family at the alleged customary union. The mother said neither she, nor the family, had authorised anyone, including the aunt, to negotiate on behalf of the deceased. Tsuene, on the other hand, stated that the lobola negotiations were entered into and both families were present when the customary union was sealed. She said that she, as the bride, was handed over to the family of the deceased. It was said that since she was pregnant at the time, her grandfather rushed things and finalised everything in one day, including the handing over of the bride. The judge said it was clear that there was a bona fide dispute of facts. He said the family's version was not far-fetched or untenable, but it was impossible for him to determine who was right and who was wrong simply on papers before the court. The judge referred the matter for trial, where the parties will have to give oral evidence to determine the truth.