This was due to council rules, which were invoked by the ANC to prevent him from taking part in council last Thursday. The ANC protested against a decision by council Speaker Katlego Mathebe to invite him to the monthly sitting, saying he had been declared a councillor that morning. Party leader Mapiti Matsena said council rules dictated that Mathebe invited Johnston in his capacity as a councillor at least 24 hours before a council meeting. The objection was made after Matheba announced that Johnston had emerged victorious during the by-election, and subsequently invited him to enter the council chamber. She initially refused to exclude Johnston, saying her office had been interacting with him and invited him by electronic means. However, she eventually gave in after council Chief Whip Christo van der Heever suggested that the meeting must continue in Johnston's absence. It was agreed that Johnston would be allowed to join council during its next sitting in May. He won the by-election last Wednesday in suburbs such as Elarduspark, Wingate Park, Moreleta Park and Rietvalleirand. Johnston was pitted against candidates from the EFF and ANC. He walked away with 95.1% of the votes, registering an emphatic victory in the elections that attracted at least 31.7% voters. The ward has traditionally been a DA stronghold, and the councillor’s position became vacant after veteran Rita Aucamp retired from active politics two months ago. Speaking to the Pretoria News, Johnston said: “The rules are the rules and if those are going to be applied so be it. Unfortunately what it does is that it is detrimental to the residents, because it means I am not officially the councillor and therefore I can't fully represent them in terms of being able to provide services 
and interacting with them.” He said he was pleased with the election outcome because it showed that residents continued to have confidence in the party. “Clearly the residents have faith in the DA and in what we have done until now. The 95.1% is a substantial increase of the votes we received in the 2016 elections, which was about 86%,” he said. Talking about his interest in politics, he said: “My interest in politics started way back in my school and university days. I studied International Relations.” He said his interest in politics was rekindled during the 2011 local government elections. “I decided that I wanted to get involved after seeing the important work done by party agents, who were providing services inside the voting stations. In order to do that, I joined the party with the intention of being involved in the next elections.” He said he was introduced to the DA by the former councillor after she saw his interest in 
politics. Johnson said his interaction with Aucamp was initially about the development of a mall in his ward. The mall construction had come to a halt and he was intrigued to find out what went wrong. “I contacted the developers and I was not happy with the answers I was getting there. The ward councillor and I had a long conversation about the mall development and the issues in the ward. She later phoned me just to ask if I was interested in politics and I said yes. "She then invited me to come and work with her,” he said. Since then, he has served as a vice-chairperson in the ward branch. “I have attended both the party's regional and provincial congresses as a delegate from the ward. I have been involved as an observer during the voters registration weekend,” Johnston said. He said he possessed a relatively good understanding of the ward and the issues faced by its residents. “I am going to look at addressing those issues and make Ward 47 a great place to live in in the east of the city. There are still ongoing issues regarding the Groenkloof dumpsite and the widening of Delmas Road,” he said. He said the City needed to look at the maintenance of the infrastructure in the ward too. He said the installation of a new pipeline was still in progress and would go a long way in alleviating water issues in the ward.