Katli, who was autistic, went missing and her body was discovered at Moretele River a few days later. The MEC assessed the route, after which she said it was impossible the child could have walked on that path alone. “I wanted to experience what Katli might have gone through before her body was found; how she managed to get there, because I can confidently tell you that it was very difficult for me as an adult to get there. That is not an easy road to travel on,” she said. Nkosi-Malobane said experts compiling the report on the death had a lot of work to do, as there were still a lot of unanswered questions. She said reports would need to shed some light on how it was possible an autistic child could walk such a distance on her own. However, she told the community there was progress in dealing with how the case was handled. “In terms of responding to how this matter was handled by members of the police, three people have been identified for not providing the service and they will go through the disciplinary hearing. On Monday (today) they will receive suspension letters.” She added that there were two senior police officials who were found not to have followed proper procedures when dealing with the case. These, she said, would be moved to other police stations. “A lot of officers have been here for years and we saw that because they are used to this place so much; we are just going to place them at other stations where (things) are not as comfortable,” she said. Although she did not go into details, Nkosi-Malobane said a preliminary report regarding Katli’s death was available, but she was waiting for a full report before she could go into the details. The MEC also laid a wreath at the scene where the body was found. She encouraged the community to work with the police. “It is the duty of community policing forum members to challenge the station commander if cases are not being attended to. “Domestic violence and femicide are cases that are difficult for the police to address, but that is where you, the community come in. You are the ones who know what is happening in your own communities and with your help you can assist the police in combating crime and eradicating women and children abuse as well as drug abuse.” She encouraged members of the community to report anyone, including police officers, who befriends drug dealers. Muggings were the main complaints heard at the engagement, which was also attended by Community Safety MMC Annirith Kissondooth.