Rapula Moatshe More investment can be expected to be pumped into Tshwane's economy in future after an energising business meeting between a German delegation and some municipal senior officials led by mayor Solly Msimanga. This was the sentiment expressed by the two parties during their encounter at Tshwane House, where they shared ideas about business opportunities in the City available to potential investors. Speaking to the Pretoria News, Msimanga said the meeting was motivated by recent interactions he had with an abassador of Federal Republic of Germany Dr Martin Schafer. "I did indicate to them that I have a programme of action to grow aggressively the economy of the City," he said.
 
At least 10 multinational companies from Germany were represented during the business encounter. Msimanga said: "Some of them are already investing in South Africa but we wanted to attract them into the City and to make sure that those that investing in the City are investing much more. They are telling me that there is a hunger for companies in Germany to come and invest here." According to him, the success to woo investment would assist in making a dent to the scourge of unemployment, which he described as the biggest social ill in the municipality. Schafer said: "I am extremely convinced that this is the right time and place to invest not only to be successful and to make a profit, but also as entry point for South Africa."
 
He said the meeting of the Germans and the City was a clear sign of a new dawn. "This is one of the countries in the world about which one can simply say 'things are moving up".  I am very confident that we will see years and years of a country that will develop," he said. Schafer said some German companies, that had been doing their business here for years, felt at home in South Africa. "All of those copmpanies have an incredible and emotional link to this beautiful country," he said. Msimanga told the delegation that he had initially set a target of R10.8 million for the City to attract investment. "But in the last 18 months the City was able to attract well over R4.8 billion in investments. Which says that whatever we are trying to do is starting to yield some results. I am hoping that you will also feel the need to go and talk to more investors in Germany to come and invest in the City," he said. Msimanga said there were numerous business opportunities that the City has on offer for potential investors, which included the ones in freight industry. "These are the things that we are leveraging as drivers to get the economy of the City going and to drive it as fast as we can," he said. He assured the delegation that the City was doing its bit to make sure that there was enough security for infrastructure. Prime Minister of Germany's Lower Saxony Stephan Weil hailed Tshwane as a great point of investment for foreigners looking to grow their business. He said Saxony was number four on the 16 German states in terms of population and its economy was doing well. "We have a very different economic structure. We are number one in the car industry," he said.