However, the Cape Town Chamber of Commerce and Industry believes it would be a blow to the Mother City should it lose Parliament to its inland “sibling”. A feasibility study by Pamoja (Pty) Ltd is being conducted on the subject of moving Parliament to Pretoria. Last week, parliamentary Speaker Baleka Mbete made the announcement while opening the debate on Parliament’s budget. Proposals to move Parliament from Cape Town were first raised in the 1990s, but the plans were put off after the ANC in the Western Cape opposed it. However, although the study was still being conducted, the shift to Pretoria could very much become a reality. To understand the financial implications of the move, the Pretoria News contacted the Tshwane Chamber of Commerce and Industry as well as the Cape Town Chamber of Commerce and Industry. Pieter du Toit, chief executive of the Tshwane Chamber of Commerce and Industry, said there would be a lot of job opportunities if Parliament moved to the capital city. He said a new building would have to be built which could create thousands of job opportunities. In terms of the economic benefits, Du Toit said there would be a huge injection of money into the economy. “The property sector will also do well because people from Parliament will be looking for homes in the city whether the person is an MP or a secretary.” Local businesses such as restaurants, clothing stores, hotels and others would benefit because more people would be moving to the city or using it as their base, he said. Janine Myburgh, head of the Cape Town Chamber of Commerce and Industry, spoke about how jobs would be affected in the province. In terms of employment, she said the majority of the staff from Parliament would not be affected because they move to the Mother City for the parliamentary sitting. However, support staff would be affected by the possible shift to Pretoria, Myburgh said. There could be major job losses for service providers to Parliament, parliamentarians and diplomats. As for the impact on the Cape Town economy, Myburgh said parliamentary sessions brought in thousands of visitors to the city. The visitors spent freely and supported restaurants and shops which created and sustained thousands of jobs. “A move to Pretoria will be a big blow to businesses that provide direct and indirect services to Parliament. Another consequence could be foreign embassies scaling down their offices in the city. The staff from foreign embassies stay in the city for long periods. If their offices scale down businesses like hotels and restaurants can be affected.”