The visit took place just hours after a first-time mother had welcomed her bundle of joy into the world at 12.30am. Both Makhura and Ramokgopa went to the hospital to mark the celebration of Mother’s Day. They showered mothers with new babies with gifts. Marudu told the pair that she didn’t expect a visit from high-profile people and a coffee mug as presents from them. Speaking to the Pretoria News, she expressed the intention to raise her son to become a good person. “Most teenage boys, especially in the townships, indulge in smoking nyaope. I want to raise him to be the best kid who loves school and becomes a prayer warrior because I am a Christian,” she said. She told Makhura and Ramokgopa that she would definitely return to give birth at the hospital in future. She said her partner was not present when she gave birth and was out of the country because of work. “We were anticipating the baby to be born on May 17, but he came today (yesterday),” she said. Makhura also interacted with more than 20 mothers, who expressed satisfaction at their treatment by hospital staff. “This is the best district hospital in Gauteng and it has been confirmed by mothers of babies we interacted with. They indicated that they are happy with the service,” he said. Makhura said the hospital previously received awards for being the best in Gauteng in terms of its hospitality to patients and cleanliness. Hospital manager Dr Naing Soe has also been a recipient of the Premier’s Award for his quality leadership. Soe said the secret for turning around the situation at the hospital rested in the support he received from his principals. “All the staff I treat like my sisters and brothers,” he said. Makhura said to Ramokgopa: “Of course one of my fears is that when you have a facility that is functioning like this, and others are not up to scratch, it can overburdened. “Other mothers and families across the country may say ‘I want my child to be born at Tshwane District Hospital’. The standard that we have here is the ideal standard that we want at our health facilities.” Makhura took some time out to cuddle the babies and wished their mothers a happy Mother’s Day. He said it was the second time he had visited the facility after doing so last year in September. Ramokgopa, who also interacted with mothers, advised them to breastfeed their babies for six months. Another mother Tshepiso Malokane, 27, who delivered her baby on May 11, highlighted the good service she received from the midwives. “I feel so happy because they were mostly helpful. Everything was quite good. They do take care of their patients,” she said.