Rapula Moatshe Farmers in the north of the City have expressed disappointment over the ongoing problem of polluted water from the treatment plant, which continued to negatively affect their crops. They complained bitterly  that dirty water endangered their produce and negatively affected their profit. Some farmers were forced to lay off their workers as a result of the situation. A farmer Andre Potgieter, who operated his business in the area for the past 18 years, said the situation had moved from bad to worse. "Water released by Rooiwal was not complying to national water Act stipulations because it contained ecoli-related micro-organisms and part of that has listeria," he said. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  He said he was forced to switch from farming lucerne because it was always contaminated with dirty water and no one was interested in purchasing it. "I decided that trying to sell lucerne is not working so let me try having cows and sheep," he said. Since his lucerne business was put on hold he was propelled to retrench at least nine of his employees. "I was running this farm in the region of 10 people and only one is left. The place is under pressure and job opportunities have collapsed," he said. His farm is located near the river stream, from where his animals used to drink. However, he said the danger posed by water from the stream to his animals had forced him to fence off the area to prevent the animals from going there. "I had to fence off everything around the river, but that cost a lot of money. There are so many animals that died because of contaminated water. The contaminated water goes into the grass and as soon as the animals had eaten the grass it first affected babies, especially for females. If I can give the animals a bucket of water today they will be dead," he said. His animals consumed water from tankers," but the problem is that it is not enough", he said. He put the blame on the DA municipality for failing to fix the Rooiwal problem. "When the DA took over the plant was in total shambles with sewage running into the river. But the thing is they are now in charge. They are the ones that need to take responsibility in the new council. They are the ones that have to sort this out," he said.