Theunissen understands the difficulties in not being able to hear, which made her even more inspired to help others in her situation. She has enrolled for a Masters degree at the University of Pretoria, after she became a Tuks alumni during the autumn graduation. Her passion is to help children as she was once helped as a child when she spent her life surrounded by health professionals such as audiologists. Theunissen imagines parents arriving at a cochlear implant clinic with a child diagnosed with Down Syndrome and a profound hearing loss in both ears. “With my research we will then have a cohort of similar patients in the literature to refer to and at least be able to create evidence-based expectations for the parents, funders and the cochlear implant team members. I am very passionate about my research and I can’t wait to share it with the world.” Her research focuses on the quality of life outcomes regarding children with cochlear implants 
who have complex and additional needs. A third of children with cochlear implants have autism, cerebral palsy or Down Syndrome. She explained how critical it was to investigate and explore the possible influences of different interacting factors on the quality of life outcomes for this population. She has no memory of hearing, but jokingly said she was a junkie for sound. However, she recalls how her parents were devastated. “I don’t want to miss a thing. Some days are more difficult than others, especially in big crowds or noisy environments, but thanks to a lot of therapy and practice I can now cope in these situations. “It has improved to such an extent that I can now work in a noisy restaurant with minor difficulties. “My hearing loss has always been and will always be a challenge, although I have learnt to adapt to my circumstances,” she said. Her parents went out of their way to ensure that she received access to sound, even though all the odds were against her. She said people and other professionals talked down her parents saying she would never be able to speak normally and the only option was sign language. But they had gracefully refused to settle for that. Her journey with hearing loss was never short of downs as she described primary school being the most difficult and testing time. She was bullied constantly as a young girl because she was different, and everyone could see it. “The world constantly reminded me of their idea of my limitations, my mistakes and my capabilities. In order to find myself, I had to stop being what the world expected me to be and learn how to live life as I am. “I knew I could do whatever I put my mind to. “Some things might have been more difficult, but never impossible. “I worked harder than most to obtain the same results and always gave it my all.” What helped her get through the trials and tribulations were the people in her life who never made her feel deaf. And the fact that her brother also has hearing loss made it better as it was always them against the world. “So I want to be there for other people like he was there for me. I want to help others understand their disability and help them see that they can excel despite it. I want to provide hope to parents with children who are newly diagnosed by being an example of what is possible even with a disability,” she said. Theunissen said her imperfection led her to pursuing the only career where her disability and experience was a definite advantage. She sees her disability not as a curse, but as a blessing. “I can now empathise with my patients as I have been where they are and sometimes still am. “It is a journey not to be walked alone.” Her passion remains working with children; she wants to be involved in the whole process, from the diagnosis to the aural rehabilitation and counselling process because she knows how daunting it can be. Being more involved with schools for children with special needs is also one of her dreams.