This is despite the SANDF saying it would take remedial action to alleviate the plight of the horses under its care as a sign of its commitment to preventing cruelty. The SAASIC was established in March 2011 with a number of horses to provide an equestrian capability for the SANDF. This is a function that includes border line safety deployment and training. NSPCA director Marcelle Meredith said: “What's done is done and there is a price to pay for suffering.” She said their inspectors were horrified when they recently discovered that horses in the care of the SAASIC unit were starving to death. “Some 25 horses on the army base were in such an emaciated condition or compromised state of health that to prevent their further suffering, they had to be destroyed,” said Meredith. They had entered into a memorandum of understanding with the SANDF, formally signed in May 2016, with regard to its responsibilities to adequately care for the animals in its control. “Their failure to secure suitably qualified personnel or adequate facilities, combined with a non-
empathetic infrastructure that has repeatedly failed the animals in their care, has resulted in a complete breakdown in the welfare conditions afforded to the horses.” Another 169 horses were being kept on the Potchefstroom property in North West. The SANDF confirmed the euthanisation of 25 of its horses. “The services of our Military Veterinary Institute (MVI) has been roped in to help continuously assess the conditions under which these animals are kept and ensure all conditions identified as harmful are addressed with the urgency they deserve to enhance the health status of our animals. “In our quest to finally settle our horses in a large enough environment, the chief of the SANDF, Solly Shoke, has directed that 80 of our horses be relocated to a better facility in Rooiwal, north of Pretoria, to ensure that all animals under the care of the SANDF are properly looked after. “With the help of the MVI, we have also enlisted extra personnel and veterinary physicians to help manage the animals and ensure that the highest standard of animal breeding behaviour is maintained by the SANDF,” it said. Meredith noted: “We are happy that the MVI is on board. We will also be requesting to be a part of the move and we will be checking up on the animals.”