Addressing the media at a post-cabinet briefing yesterday, Communications Minister Nomvula Mokonyane said the cabinet had at its Wednesday meeting approved the State Liability Amendment Bill. The bill provides for the settlement structure of claims against the state that arise from wrongful medical treatment of persons at health facilities. “This will provide for a reduced impact of lump sum payments on the budgets of public hospitals. These amendments will increase the financial resources available to provincial hospitals to provide health care services,” Mokonyane said. In March 2017, National Treasury told Parliament that medical claims against the state increased from R28bn to R43bn. It was reported at the time that Gauteng paid R2.9bn in settlements, KwaZulu-Natal R243 million and the Eastern Cape R210m. Mokonyane also said there would still be compensation for those lodging successful claims. “What this bill seeks to do is to make sure that the consequences and issues of liability must be to the benefit of the patient. Secondly, it must come in different packages and not in just one form.” The proposed legislation provided for patients to now get medication to help them recover rather than financial compensation. “You shall be assisted to be taken to a particular level. Then your health can be improved other than (just through) financial 
compensation.” Mokonyane said cabinet also approved a bill which amends the Criminal Procedure Act. “The proposed amendment bill will extend the list of sexual offences in respect of the prosecution and, significantly, it allows for the charges to be instituted even after 20 years,” she said. The amendment is in compliance with the judgment made by the South Gauteng High Court a few years ago. The court had found the act inconsistent with the constitution and invalid as it barred prosecution for all sexual offences after the lapse of 20 years from the time when the offence was committed. “The amendments will allow the National Prosecuting Authority wider discretion to institute prosecutions in sexual offences in accordance with Chapter 2 of the constitution,” Mokonyane said. This bill comes against the backdrop of former ANC MP and musician Jennifer Ferguson opening a case of rape against South African Football Association president Danny Jordaan for an incident that took place at a hotel in Port Elizabeth 24 years ago. Mokonyane said the issue about sexual offences that took place two decades ago came about when the government was responding to the court ruling. “The South Gauteng Court judgment exposed the (flaws) in terms of our own laws. What it (the bill) seeks to do is also to help the vulnerable; who can't, when abused, be in a position to speak for themselves.” The government remains hopeful that the bills will be passed in time before the end of term of Parliament in 2019. The national legislature is racing against time to process as many bills as possible before next year's general elections. Mokonyane said the bills would be included in the parliamentary programme. “They are already tagged for this particular term unless (there are) delays due to consultation and concerns that come through public participation or Parliament itself.”