The residents said the dust became unbearable during morning and evening peak periods. They said they could not open the windows of their houses because of dust. They said they had to contend with loose rocks that damaged tyres, chipped windscreens and left them with huge bills for repairs. Motorists also complained that they couldn’t see 20m ahead on the road because of the heavy dust. Retired athlete Elias van der Colff, 82, who has been living in the area for 12 years, said he had survived a traumatic ordeal because of that road. The five-time Comrades Marathon runner, who also has National colours for Masters Athletics, said he used the road for training. “I trained every day for 10km on this road, up to the Cullinan Road and back to my place.” But on May 27, 2016, his training session was cut short when he was knocked down by a bike along the road. The accident, he said, was because of the poor visibility caused by the dust. “It was 7am. I broke my pelvis, shoulder and ribs, “ he said. He spent 40 days in ICU, and said since then he could not compete in marathons and now worked out in his house. The problems relating to the unsafe condition of the road dates back to 2016, when residents said it was dangerous. At the time, they said it had been abandoned by a contractor brought in to rehabilitate it. In 2015, an elderly man was in coma for a few days after he was knocked down by a car. The driver could not see him because of dust. Residents said at the time pedestrians and bicyclists feared for their lives as vehicles travelled at excess speeds because there were no traffic-calming measures or speed restrictions. “Visibility is limited to 1m during peak hours. Guesthouses and other tourism businesses have had to close as guests do not want to stay in this squalor and unsafe environment,” a resident told the Pretoria News at the time. Martin Kruger said: “I have been staying on this road for the last 10 years and have been told on four occasions that funding was approved, and that the road will be upgraded and tarred. But a few months later we would be told the money had disappeared.” He and his neighbours said maintenance was rarely done, and if it was, it was just the scraping of the road, which loosened boulders and stones and made it more dangerous. This week, the residents claimed a contractor upgrading the road abandoned the project. Kievits Kroon hotel, a popular lodge and spa situated along the road, said it had lost large amounts of money due to the road. Operations manager JD Kleinhans said guests complained about the high levels of dust, which also affected the air-conditioners in their rooms. Subsequently they had seen a significant drop in the number of visitors. “Basically we have increased all our maintenance costs. We clean the air-con filters every month instead of once every three months,” he said. Ward 99 councillor Johan Welmans said that since 2016 residents had submitted numerous petitions to the roads department about the dire state of three roads in the area: Reier Road, Leeuwfontein Road and the Bynespoort Road. “All are provincial roads and all three lead to schools. Can you imagine the effects the dust has on young schoolchildren? The dangers of unprecedented levels of dust in the atmosphere affects them terribly,” he said. Welmans said that in the past he had met with Roads and Transport MEC Dr Ismail Vadi and explained the shortcomings of the roads, but nothing had since changed. “They are failing us dismally,” he said. Resident Nthatheni Mudau, who has lived in the area for eight years, said the dust affected his health. “It affects my sinuses so badly.” He said he coughed every time he spoke because of the dust. “In addition to that, my wife always complains about constant cleaning because of the dust,” he said. Stud farm owner Martin Kruger said the last five years had been a nightmare. He had had to relocate his horses because of the relentless dust that had health implications for the horses. “It is a traumatic experience. You don’t just relocate horses, it defeats the purpose of the business,” he said. Lourens Jansen van Rensburg, director of dust control company I-CAT Environmental Solutions, said the dirt road posed a serious health hazard. “According to the community it is three times the allowed dust regulation.” He said the dust was detrimental to small children and the elderly, and in the long run could be deadly. DA Taemane constituency head Adriana Randall was in the area to conduct an oversight visit of the road on Friday. She said no quality or lab control was done on the road and someone had to take accountability: “Someone must be brought to book.” The office of the MEC had yet to comment by publication time.