Rapula Moatshe A peeved farmer near Rooiwal Waste Water Treatment Plant exchanged heated words with some ANC leaders in Tshwane, accusing them of squandering a budget put aside for upgrading the facility in 2005. This took place at the treatment plant on Thursday when the party representatives were there to show journalists its appalling condition. Their visit to the plant came after they recently levelled accusations against the DA-led administration for allowing the spillage from the plant to flow into the Apies River and pollute the nearby farmlands. Leaders were just about to embark on a walkabout when a local farmer Theuns Fogel drove through the entrance. He then approached a group of journalists, who were being addressed by a local resident Andre Potgieter. Potgieter expressed dismay at how the DA-led administration mismanaged the plant, which he described as dysfunctional.
He said: "Tshwane has got money. They spent 40% of their budget in the first six months on sanitation in Tshwane and 60% was not spent. What is happening here is a blatant political game where the ANC gives a directive to say sort out your legal responsibility and that is blatantly ignored by the current DA-EFFcity council." To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  But Potgieter was stopped short by Fogel, who shouted out that the problem at Rooiwal could be traced back to the era of the ANC municipality. "The problem comes back from 2005 and then there was R2.1 billion for the expansion of this place and that money just vanished under (former mayor) Ramokgopa and then there was R80 million and it also vanished and then there was R4 million which also vanished. What happened was that this problem of sewage started when the ANC was still in charge," he said. Some ANC representatives, who were within earshot, ordered Fogel to refrain from making suggestions that their party must carry the blame of the deteriorating condition at the plant. They expressed unhappiness about his remarks that the problem occurred under their party's governance. Fogel refused to back down and continued: "I am telling you about the problem which started in 2005. The ANC started it and now the DA must sort it out while there is no money. Where is the money?" He accused the party of having misused the money planned for the upgrading of the facility. Tshwane MMC for Utility Services Darryl Moss said the Tshwane ANC caucus politicised and peddled false information about the Rooiwal Waste Water Treatment Plant and the quality of Hammanskraal drinking water. ANC shadow MMC for Utility Services Jane Makgato had previously said residents in Hammanskraal and the neighbouring places must desist from drinking water from the plant because it was contaminated with faeces, saying it posed danger to their lives. Moss said:"While we acknowledge that the plant has its own challenges, the Rooiwal effluent quality has no impact on the quality of the drinking water that is being produced at the Temba Water Purification Plant. Modern technologies are incorporated in the process that ensure that the water supplied to Hammanskraal is of the highest possible standard."