The picture was posted in 2015 on the social media platform SnapChat, accompanied by a few written lines that they had an enjoyable evening. This sparked a conversation on WhatsApp involving a large group of then-AHS pupils. What probably began as a schoolboy joke quickly escalated into
pack behaviour where about 28 pupils, mostly in matric, ripped into the young woman for wearing the cap. Screenshots of the messages reveal shocking obscenities slurred at her, as well as threats of physical and sexual violence against her, all because she was wearing the AHS - or Affies - cap. The matter has now turned to the Equality Court, sitting at the Pretoria Magistrate’s Court, as the teenager and her parents were not happy with the way the school “simply gave them a slap on the wrists” for their conduct. Apart from demanding an apology from the boys involved, the teenager and her parents, with the aid of Lawyers for Human Rights, want an undertaking from AHS that it will educate its pupils about gender equality and gender-based violence. The then teenager's ordeal started on August 6, 2015, while she was playing a game called “beerpong” with some AHS “old boys”.  One had his former school cap with him and placed it on the head of the teenager, who is identified only as Miss S as she was only 17 at the time. Her friend sent her a screenshot the next day regarding the group conversation on WhatsApp about her wearing the cap. One of the AHS pupils added her to the conversation, which contained foul language and threats such as that they would “f*** her up” for wearing the cap. They also made derogatory and personal remarks regarding her and even her parents. “The threats and insults levelled at me through these messages were relentless, humiliating and 
frightening. “I tried to put up a brave front, but I felt hounded and unsafe. The messages were intimidating, insulting and included personal comments of an explicit and sometimes sexual nature relating to my character and my appearance,” Miss S said in an affidavit filed before the court. The events left her emotionally and psychologically traumatised, fearful and depressed at a critical time during her matric exams. “I believe I need counselling at some point to mitigate any long-term effects from this traumatic experience,” she stated. Her father met AHS principal Dr Pierre Edwards and the vice-principal for discipline Peregrine Joynt at the time to discuss the issue. Mr S said in his affidavit that he told Edwards that he expected the school to take decisive action and to suspend the boys who were involved, ahead of the exams. He said Edwards told him no one would tell him how to run his school. Edwards, who was cited as a respondent to the Equality Court proceedings, said he himself had two daughters and he had understanding for the father's emotional state, but he added that he couldn't simply expel the boys. “I also remarked that such comment (as depicted in the messages) towards a lady would not be tolerated and that those involved had to face the consequences of their deeds,” he said in his affidavit. Edwards stated that he didn’t waste time and the matter was immediately investigated. The boys who posted the crude messages each received a written warning from him, their parents were informed and most of them received three detention sessions. One pupil who was a member of the Affies Council was for a few weeks stripped of this privilege. Edwards said he further obtained the services of an expert to speak to the school about the dangers of social media. Joynt, in an e-mail to Mr P, apologised for the boys' behaviour. Miss S and her parents felt the action taken by AHS was inadequate. Miss S said in her affidavit “the once off verbal admonishment was rumoured to have been filmed by one of the pupil’s cellphones and treated as a joke by the other boys”. She said the disciplinary steps did not include any systemic interventions and thus failed to address the underlying cause of the conduct or to prevent similar future conduct by AHS pupils. She regarded the conduct of the boys to be unfair discrimination on the basis of her gender. One of the orders she is asking for is that the school undergo an audit of its policies and practices, including its institutional culture. She is also claiming a total of R100000 in damages from the boys who had allegedly traumatised her. The first hurdle for the case to proceed is, however, to obtain the particulars of the alleged offenders so that the application can be served on them. They only have the phone number of some, as retrieved from the Whatsapp messages. The school refused to divulge this information. The court recently ruled that the application can be served via substituted service, whereby the court order will be published in various newspapers. The boys will be notified in this manner of the pending main application. They have 30 days upon notification to notify LHR, or the clerk of the court, of their intention to oppose. Those who do not opposecould face summary judgment. Joynt, when contacted by the Pretoria News, said this order has not yet been served on the school. He was also surprised that the matter was going ahead, as he believed the matter was not proceeding. Joynt admitted that they did not divulge the particulars of the now former pupils. “We are not allowed to do this, unless told by a court to do so,” he said.