PRETORIA’s premier uber sophisticated spot, Time Square in Menlyn, lit up on Sunday afternoon when the stars came out to play, bringing glitz, glamour and style and putting the newly established area firmly on the map. This was when  the Sun Arena and the new Maslow Hotel hosted the Diamond Jubilee of the annual Miss SA contest, an event which they snatched from Sun City, which had become known as the home of the pageant after hosting it for many years until it was held at Carnival City last year. Miss South Africa, Cell C and Sun International pulled out all the stops to make what they termed a reunion of beauty and brains nothing but a remarkable event. And to make sure it lived up to the promise of a memorable event they gathered a panel of judges with the finer tastes from food to fashion to talk and social media. They then called the women who have represented the country over the years into the same room, and this is when the nostalgia hit those who followed the event on social media and from the comfort of their living rooms. They rolled out the red carpet and the ladies, some who still had the figures they became known for while others had obviously matured like good wine, sashayed on. They were not, however, the only stars of the night, as the people of South African celebville also made their way into town and into the east of Pretoria. They woke up, dressed up and showed up to make the pre-crowning moments an event on its own, and kept social media abuzz with pictures and comments on how beautiful people somehow got together when they had to. And then everyone gathered in the arena and the actual festivities began – the girls dressed up and down, in bikinis and gowns; singers and performers took to the stage and wooed their audience, reminding the world of South Africa’s enormous amount of homegrown talent. The goings-on at Time Square Arena, which has become the latest home of entertainment, had the collective eyes of the country and beyond glued to it throughout the performances, the parading of brains and beauty, right until the crowning moment when Tamaryn Green outdid the other finalists to become the 60th Miss South Africa. And when it was all said and done, and everyone else went home to write the day down as the most memorable of the year, the 23-year-old took her car keys and prepared to start her life in the spotlight as the ambassador of beauty and the epitome of all that is good as expected by the public.