This was the evidence of Gerhardus Papenfus, one of the four people accused of murdering Dreyer in his Villieria home during the Easter Weekend in 2016. Dreyer was the owner of Jakaranda Funerals, and one of his alleged killers, Estelle Reddy, stayed with him and worked for him. The pair  were lovers, but they had broken up by the time of his death. Reddy and Papenfus earlier pleaded not guilty to a string of charges, including murder, together with co-accused Kevin Johnson (also known as Zulu), 31, and Ruvan Furst (known as Malak), 42. Last week Reddy testified in the Gauteng High Court, Pretoria, how about 50kg of caustic soda was dumped on Dreyer’s body to dissolve it. In her testimony, which sounded like the plot of a thriller movie, Reddy admitted that she assisted to cover the body in a carpet. She also helped to carry it to the manhole and even got into the hole to remove some bedding around the body, so the caustic soda could “do its job”. But Reddy, 36, was adamant that she had no choice, because she was afraid of Papenfus, 42, “the mastermind” behind the killing. She described Papenfus as a “gangster” who threatened her with violence if she did not carry out his instructions. Papenfus, who took the stand yesterday, said it was Reddy who called the shots and acted irrationally. He said Dreyer's death was an accident, as he had a heart attack during an altercation with Furst and Johnson. Papenfus said Reddy was with her in-laws in Laudium at the time and he and his two co-accused went to Dreyer’s house to feed the dogs. His friends went into the house and he later heard noises, he said. When he went to investigate, he saw Dreyer dead on the floor. They tried to apply CPR, he said, but to no avail. Asked in court yesterday as to why he did not call the police or the ambulance, Papenfus had an array of excuses. “I know it was the right thing to do, but we were intoxicated and high on drugs and I did not have my phone with me,” he said. Papenfus added: “Danie’s death was a shock to me.” He said he covered the body in a duvet and hid it in the base of Dreyer’s bed. “I was panic stricken," he told the court. Papenfus said they had agreed to dump the body and he went back to Dreyer’s house the following day, to “prepare” the body. He covered it in a rug and while it was being carried it to the car, he tried to assist. The body fell twice on the way to the car, as it was so heavy. Papenfus said they decided to dump the body in a manhole on the property next to his mother's home in Capital Park. “I carried the body over my shoulders and hurled it head first into the manhole.” They placed a ladder inside the manhole, on top of the body to enable Reddy and Johnson to climb down to open some of the bedding, so that the caustic soda they threw on the body could dissolve it. Papenfus said he and Reddy went to church the following day, as he felt he had to reach out to God, as “his life was a mess”. “I never did him any harm. I had no reason to kill him. He simply had a heart attack. "But I am just as guilty as them (his co-accused) in disposing of the body,” Papenfus told Judge Bert Bam.