The memorial service is held annually and close to his birthday, which is on May 24. Smuts died aged 80 on September 11, 1950, after he suffered a coronary thrombosis. He died of a subsequent heart attack at his family farm in Doornkloof. Men and women from far and near in military uniform gathered in honour of the late military leader and philosopher. Chaplain Marius van Rooyen said many were breaking all that Smuts had worked hard to build, and said it was time that everyone reconciled. “General Smuts understood the wisdom of unity and reconciliation and that's what he stood for; unity. Many of our lives are testimonials of unity and that is what we are celebrating here today.” The Welsh Male Voice Choir of SA had the audience in awe with melodious voices, while the SANDF held a mini-parade. Smuts’s great-grandson Philip Weyers said it was sentimental for him and the family to see his great-grandfather remembered and honoured in such a dignified manner. “Even though I'm too young to have known my great-grandfather, for me to have my South African people recognise and celebrate him like this means a lot. “In as much as I have spoken about him all over the world, I have also heard a lot about him and I can tell you that this man was a complete genius,” he said. The memorial included a wreath-laying ceremony in memory of Smuts. Smuts served as prime minister of the Union of South Africa from 1919 until 1924, as well as from 1939 to 1948. He is the only man to have signed both of peace treaties which ended World War I and II. Although Smuts had originally advocated racial segregation and opposed the enfranchisement of black Africans, his views changed. He then backed the Fagan Commission's findings that complete segregation was impossible. He continued to work for reconciliation and emphasised the British Commonwealth's positive role until his death in 1950. He led a Boer Commando in the second war for Transvaal and the South African armies against Germany, capturing German South-West Africa and commanding the British Army in East Africa. Two years after his death, the international airport in Kempton Park was founded and given his name. It is now known as OR Tambo International Airport.