ZELDA VENTER A PRETORIA high Court judge questioned the version of the South African National Defence Force (SANDF) that it did not forcefully throw several families out of their homes on an army base near Springs known as Marievale. The group, with the help of Lawyers for Human Rights (LHR) turned to the Gauteng High Court, Pretoria, on Wednesday in a bid to return to what they regarded as their homes. They said the SANDF cannot simply take the law into its own hands and  throw them out of the houses without a court order. To make matters worse, they said, they were forcefully removed and automatic rifles were aimed at them. Some claimed that they were even assaulted. The SANDF denied that they had evicted the families, which include children and the aged. But Judge Norman Davis questioned whether these people simply one day decided to get up and move by themselves. “This is highly unlikely”, the judge commented. The about 150 families want the court to order that they may return to their homes. They are asking that if they cannot return immediately, the SANDF had to pay R1 500 a month to each of them so that they could in the meantime get alternative accommodation. Judge Davis, however, questioned the viability of making a payment to each household who could not return to their homes. He said there was no law on this issue and it could open the doors to other problems. Most of the residents were originally linked to the military base at Marievalle, but in subsequent years the number of military staff working for Group 16  diminished and more civilian families moved in. The SANDF said civilians who were not linked to the SANDF were not allowed on the base and the civilians who had moved in, were simply allowed to remain there due to an oversight on the side of the SANDF. The court was told that among others, soldiers on the base had to undertake training operations and they used weapons and explosives, which posed a danger to civilians. The SANDF also complained about lawlessness on the base since the civilians had moved in and said drugs, brothels and criminal activities were a problem. It said that the “eviction”  the residents complained about, were nothing more than crime prevention operations which were carried out on the base. The SANDF vehemently denied that anyone was assaulted. The families meanwhile said the size of the base shrunk over the years and as the military staff moved out, the SA Military Police started putting pressure on residents to vacate their homes. In 2009 the officer commanding Marievale Engineering Regiment issued notices to all civilian residents ordering them to leave their homes or risk being removed by the military. Following this threat the residents complained to the SA Human Rights Commission as they feared they would be removed. The SAHRC wrote to the minister of defence and warned that an eviction without a court order would be illegal. The SANDF, however, said it was establishing a regiment at the Marievale Military Base and needed accommodation for the members and their families. Their counsel told the court that even if there was an order that the residents had to move back, this could not be done as most of the houses were now occupied by military personnel. It was also argued that the few empty houses were not habitable and they could thus not allow anyone to move in. The residents of Marievale meanwhile protested outside court yesterday and said with winter coming, they especially needed a roof over their heads. They will, however, have to wait until May 9 when Judge David will decide their fate.