This comes after SAA said it would need R21.7billion to run its business. SA Express is also in serious financial crisis. National Treasury revealed a few months ago that SOEs were sitting on guarantees of more than R500bn and Eskom had the largest guarantees. Gordhan said as they jacked up the SOEs there was no doubt some of them would need cash. “Many of these SOEs will require legitimate cash for operational purposes. If you have the right board and effective management many of these SOEs can pull themselves out of trouble. Many of these SOEs are in trouble because the focus was ‘how I can steal’,” said Gordhan. He said they were in trouble because the boards of the SOEs did not focus on how to get the business right. Gordhan also called for the investigation and prosecution of cases into state capture. His call came after he promised a clampdown on corruption in SOEs with new boards and a shake-up in executive management. However, after Gordhan’s announcement on the new boards of the SOEs, the South African Civil Aviation Authority grounded the cash-strapped South African Express (SAX). The grounding of SAX had a direct impact on MPs after House chairperson Grace Borotho told the Chamber that members booked on SA Express flights would be contacted for alternative arrangements. “It is inevitable that SAX is grounded by the South African Civil Aviation Authority. Members there shouldn't be in any panic. I wished to pass this message,” said Borotho. SAX is due for a merger with SA Airways and Mango to improve efficiency and strengthen the balance sheet of the national airline. In his media briefing in Cape Town yesterday , Gordhan revealed that Trillian, a Gupta-linked company, had benefited from dodgy deals at SA Express. This followed a clean-up at the airline where it was found R5.7million was paid to Trillian for advisory services, but nothing was done. Another R67m was spent a month in a dodgy fuel deal, said Gordhan. Gordhan said PPC finance chief Tryphosa Ramano would head the board of SA Express. The cabinet packed the boards of Transnet, Denel and SA Express with skilled individuals. He said all the new boards must fight malfeasance that reared its ugly head during state capture. Gordhan said they wanted to clean up SOEs after hundreds of millions of rand went up in smoke in state capture. He said they wanted to get the money back that was allegedly stolen. He said the Hawks and National Prosecuting Authority must act on corruption and state capture. To avoid corruption they wanted to align the boards with executive management teams in the SOEs. “As you know, state capture was not about replacing boards, it was about replacing good managers.” He said many skilled managers left the state because of state 
capture.