“We are not losing the battle. We are working on numerous operations that will see a lot of people arrested. We have so far arrested people and confiscated lethal firearms and explosives.” Mulaudzi said police in the past had experienced problems with the crime intelligence unit, but that had since been sorted out. He said the robberies called for serious intervention from the highest level, and on June 13, a meeting has been convened by Parliament's portfolio committee on police. Fidelity Security Group head Wahl Bartmann said the situation was completely out of control and had become unsustainable. “In spite of efforts to work more diligently with the authorities and other stakeholders, the number of attacks continues to rise across the industry, with a record high of 135 incidents being reported this year. “Last month alone we spent in excess of R4.5million in backup and support to secure resources and assets and, most importantly, to protect staff," Bartmann said. In Pretoria alone, six cash-in-transit robberies have been reported since the start of the year. The latest took place on the N4 in Silverton last Friday. Prior to that, a cash van on its way from Hammanskraal on the N4 was met by men armed with assault rifles, who forced it off the road near the Murrayfield off-ramp. It was bombed open and an undisclosed amount of money was taken. In Soshanguve, a security guard was injured when robberies crashed into a cash-in-transit truck last week, and in Hammanskraal, a vehicle suffered the same fate when robbers took the guards' firearms and made off with an undisclosed amount of cash. Closer to the CBD, criminals pounced on a cash-in-transit truck in broad daylight on the N14 near Eeufees Road. At around the same time, robbers blew open a truck carrying cash along the N4 highway, leaving hundreds of notes scattered on the ground and escaping in four vehicles. Bartmann said criminals had become increasingly brazen, and the attacks were difficult to manage. “We are fighting a silent war which is starting to spill over into civilian areas as well,” he said . The South African Banking Risk Information Centre said although it was actively engaged in collaborative threat surveillance, risk detection and tactical support with relevant authorities, more needed to be done. Dr Hennie Lochner, a senior lecturer in forensic and criminal investigation science at Unisa, who has completed extensive research interviewing 21 convicted robbers, believed that police had lost the fight against heists. He said robbers were too advanced in executing these crimes, leaving the police with the use of informants as the only means of curbing them. AfriForum’s head of safety, Ian Cameron, was of the opinion that independent specialist units must be established to curb this crime.