RAPULA MOATSHE
rapula.moatshe@inl.co.za A massive cache of copper cables with an estimated value of R500 000 was recovered on Monday morning by Tshwane metro police officers, who pounced on two men while on their way to sell them to a scrapyard dealer in Pretoria West. The crackdown was launched by officers within a cable theft unit after they had received a tip-off that there was a suspicious truck usually transporting cables in the area. One man was caught in possession of copper cables with an estimated street value of R500 000, while his accomplice was able to flee the scene. The duo were driving in a truck loaded with recyclable aluminium materials such as empty cans of soft drinks with an estimated 500 kilogram of copper cabling underneath. Metro police spokesperson senior Superitendent Isaac Mahamba said the suspect confessed that he was destined to transport copper cables to a nearby scrapyard dealer. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  Mahamba said the suspect would be charged with being in possession of stolen goods and would soon appear in the Pretoria Magistrate's Court. "We are going to profile the other suspect who is on the run," Mahamba said. Executive mayor Solly Msimanga believed the bust was a major breakthrough in a fight against the scourge of cable theft. He said the illegal activity was a huge problem and had a negative bearing on the City's ability to roll out services to communities. "This is a huge problem right now and it has a street value of R500 000. It is costing us per sub-station between R1,5 million and R5 million to replace every time when these guys hit. It is not just the copper that goes in there. It is also the manpower that we have to put in there and it is also residents suffering," he said. He said officers in the cable theft unit staked out in the morning following the tipoff about a certain truck. According to him, the officers were able to positively identify that the copper cables belonged to the City. "There were two guys and one managed to get away. We are questioning another gentleman," Msimanga said. He said the City had had some successes in its fight against the illicit activity. "I have just been given a report of someone who has been sentenced for 15 years in prison and there are seven more that are going to be facing prison sentences due to cable theft activities," he said.