“I’m a rugby player and all I want to do is to do well and play well, and inspire not only black people, but all of South Africa. I’m not only representing one group, it is everybody.” Kolisi was addressing the media for the first time since his historic appointment as the first black Springbok captain on Monday. The 26-year-old acknowledged the faith Erasmus has in him as a leader and a player, and said there was no reason to doubt why he was chosen to lead the Springboks in the upcoming series against England ,which starts at Ellis Park on June 9. “I’ve known him (Erasmus) since I was 18 years old, and he is straightforward with me. He has had a sitdown with me and spoke to me, and that is how it is like with all the players. “He has told me exactly why he has appointed me, and I am happy with that,” a confident and always cheerful Kolisi said. With incidents of racism constantly shining a bad light on the sport, Kolisi revealed how Erasmus had recently shown the Springbok squad who they represent when they put on the jersey. “He showed us a picture from the back on Saturday when we were playing, and what you see in front of you is every single race, and that is exactly who we are representing. “I can’t stand here and say that I am representing this one group; I am representing the whole of South Africa. That is why we have the South African flag on our chest and our jersey,” said Kolisi. Kolisi said his family were delighted with his appointment. “I have spoken to my family. They are very chuffed and my dad is very chuffed. He says it is too much for him because people are trying to interview him every day while he is trying to work, so it is getting too much for him. But they are very proud and my club, African Bombers, where I started playing, are also proud. “When I told my wife, she put the phone down and she called me back and said: ‘Say again what you just said’. It was obviously before it was announced. She said ‘call your dad’, and I said ‘no, I can’t tell anyone. I’m only telling you’. I had to calm her down. I said ‘just turn off your phone if it makes it easier’. “To be honest, when I play my first game it will really hit me that I’m a Springbok captain. You know me, I am just proud to be a captain. It means a lot to me and it is a huge privilege and an honour. I think I will realise it when I’m playing. I’m not going to lie and say it’s a new coaching staff and I still need to get to know them. I know Rassie very well, I know coach (Mzwandile) Stick very well. We won’t have excuses afterwards and say we are still getting to know each other. That is out of the window,” Kolisi said.