The union, which represents about 7000 emergency management service workers, has now written to Gauteng MEC for Health, Gwen Ramokgopa, requesting a meeting in which they want to discuss the possible withdrawal of paramedics from night shift. Union president Mpho Mpogeng said: “We cannot continue as if it is business as usual when it is not. Our members are on call every day, but they are not protected. “We cannot allow these attacks to continue. We will withdraw our members from working night shift if the matter is not speedily addressed.” In the letter, dated May 18, the union says it wants to discuss the “issue about ambulances”. “They must stop operating during the night,” the letter reads in part. The union also wants to discuss the robberies of paramedics when dispatched to help people in distress. Ramokgopa’s spokesperson Lesemang Matuka did not respond to questions yesterday. Mpogeng said that in the latest incident, which occurred last week, two paramedics based at the Odi base were robbed of their belongings at gunpoint by three men, one of whom had called the emergency line and requested an ambulance. The employees, a female aged 42 and a male in his 30s, were dispatched to Mabopane but found no one when they arrived in the area on Thursday night. They then called the caller to get better directions, which were given to them. “At the scene they found three armed males. This is when they discovered that it was a false call. The female crew (member) managed to run away but unfortunately the male crew (member) was left there and they took his cellphone, wedding ring, wallet, radio, etc,” Mpogeng said. “We are concerned that these robberies are becoming a nationwide phenomenon and we strongly condemn such acts that not only traumatise the workers, but also risk putting lives of many people at 
risk. “(The union demands that) ambulances be escorted when attending calls, law enforcers should arrest criminals because since these incidents took place no one has been arrested to date (and) members of the community need to work with law enforcement to expose these thugs,” Mpogeng said. In March, a 33-year-old paramedic was shot and killed near Odi base in Mabopane.