The 10-year-old with autism went missing, and her body was found in Moretele River last Sunday. She was buried on Friday at Mamelodi West Cemetery. Makhura visited the family yesterday and told them that he was aware of a barrage of complaints regarding the police’s shoddy service to the local community. “The story of Katli brings it to the fore in the sharpest way where the family went to the police station and were to told to come back and were moved from pillar to post. “That is not the type of government institution that we want,” he said. He also expressed his condolences to the distraught family who had repeatedly demanded action be taken against the implicated police. “I am deeply hurt by the loss of Katli and I am angry with the kind of action and inaction of the police in this area,” he said. Makhura said Mamelodi police station was one of the poorly performing stations in the province, according to the government monitoring system to gauge the works of public service institutions. “I would like to see the immediate change of leadership at this police station. It is not only the police officers who sent the family away, but there is problem with the leadership of this institution,” he said. According to him, MEC for Community Safety Sizakhele Nkosi-Malobane previously visited the station to meet the police officers with a view to help them address concerns raised by communities about their performance. “We have given support to the police, but certainly we need a change of leadership. We tried everything to get the station to function effectively,” he said. He promised the family that the police minister together with the provincial police commissioner would make sure there was a change of leadership at the station. “I would like to see action within a short space of time,” he said. Makhura said some community members had expressed willingness to work with the government to make sure the Storoms eventually received closure. He assured the family he was on their side and would support any course of action they pursued to ensure justice was done over Katli’s death. “The family can count on my support. We stand on the side of the citizen at all times. We always take the side of citizens,” he said. Police have opened an inquest docket into Katli’s death, but no arrest has been made to date.