That is the extent to which the work of Nzima, who has died in a Mbombela, Mpumalanga, hospital, had become synonymous with that  historic day. Nzima was 83. He had retired to his hometown of Bushbuckridge, where he also ran a school of photography. It is hard to imagine the Soweto 1976 pupils rioting against being taught in Afrikaans without thinking of his iconic image. A photojournalist attached to The World newspaper at the time, Nzima captured a crying Mbuyisa Makhubu and Antoinette Sithole rushing the fatally wounded 13-year-old Pieterson to a car. The picture became one of the major symbols of the Struggle against apartheid, a point political parties highlighted when paying tribute to Nzima yesterday. “It is this photo that caused the world to come to terms with the brutality and evil of the apartheid system,” said ANC spokesperson Pule Mabe. Said Parliament’s Moloto Mothapo: “The photograph, published widely, helped force the world to take notice and act against a government prepared to kill even children so that it could continue enforcing its oppressive policies of racial discrimination and oppression.” Mothapo added that Nzima “belonged to a generation of photographers who used the power of the camera lens to make an immense contribution to the Struggle against that repressive regime and to bring about freedom and democracy”. President Cyril Ramaphosa said Nzima is etched in people’s minds for his iconic photograph. “His camera captured the full brutality of apartheid oppression on the nation’s psyche and history from the Defiance Campaign through to forced removals and the Soweto student uprisings. “We will especially remember his iconic photograph of a dying young Hector Pieterson which became a symbol of resistance against the imposition of Afrikaans as a medium of instruction in black schools,” said Ramaphosa. Nzima paid a price for his work. He resigned from his job and fled Johannesburg after it was published. The apartheid regime arrested and placed him under house arrest for 19 months in Lilydale, Mpumalanga, after The World published the photo. In 2016, he told Time magazine he had known the regime would hound him. I knew I was risking my life.” Time magazine listed the picture as one of 100 most influential photographs ever taken.