This followed weekend reports that some senior white DA MPs had lashed Maimane in a heated party caucus meeting following his speech. Ramaphosa, who was answering questions in Parliament, said yesterday he fully backed Maimane on the comments he made. He said South Africa wanted to pull many people out of poverty. This would include a growth trajectory. The president said he supported Maimane because this was necessary. He said he will be the first one to defend Maimane against fellow DA members opposed to his views on white privilege against black poverty. “We were alarmed to see the headlines ‘The majority of DA members are turning against you because you are telling the truth’,” said Ramaphosa. Maimane should join them in healing the wounds of the past. DA chief whip John Steenhuisen was incensed by Ramaphosa and told him to keep away from newspapers. “You shouldn’t believe what you read in the Sunday newspapers,” Steenhuisen told Ramaphosa. But Ramaphosa ignored him and said they fully endorsed Maimane’s views. Steenhuisen is one of the DA leaders in Parliament fingered as having attacked Maimane. The others are DA deputy chief whip Mike Waters and Natasha Mazzone. The DA has been caught up in the diversity debate. Recently, DA MPL in Gauteng Khumo Ramulifho challenged the decision of the party in appointing Mazzone to the federal council. Mazzone was announced as the second deputy chairperson of the federal council. But the DA dismissed Ramulifho’s claim that Mazzone was appointed to the position after the conference early last month. It said Mazzone was elected at the conference and the confusion from Ramulifho was that the result was not announced at the conference. Meanwhile, Ramaphosa also told Parliament he will review the State Security Agency (SSA) and conduct investigations. These will include the parallel structure, called the Principal Agent Network, set up by former 
director-general of the SSA, Arthur Fraser. The latter was moved a few weeks ago from the position to head up the Department of Correctional Services. This followed a complaint and court action by the Inspector-General of Intelligence, Setlhomamaru Dintwe, that Fraser was interfering with his duties and had withdrawn his security clearance after he investigated him. The complaint was lodged last year by the official opposition after it accused Fraser of running a parallel intelligence structure targeting the political opponents of former president Jacob Zuma. Ramaphosa said the review panel would consist of people from the intelligence community and security cluster. He refused to answer more questions on Fraser’s redeployment.