The Medleko Meropa Band, in association with The South African State Theatre, have vowed to take the audience back to their a roots with the Journey of the Drum show this Friday. The vibrant performers and band yesterday continued to rehearse, as they had done in the past three weeks. Fans will be treated to two shows - at 11am and 8pm - and tickets range from R80. The concert will feature an exciting line-up of a legendary collaboration between South African and international artists such as Vusi Mahlasela, PoyPoy Makhubela, Ekundayo Dbass, Tlokwe Sehume, Sol Shibambo, Mikelangelo, Saradindu and Movi M, to name a few. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  A cultural exchange of percussionists from Nigeria, India, Ireland and South Africa will tell a story through drums and percussions with African folklore praise poetry. Fire dancer Okonko from Ghana, who is also featured, yesterday gave a mindblowing performance during rehearsals. As drummers did their best, he too unleashed his skills that involve the manipulation of fire. He took some time to chat to the Pretoria News ahead of the show. “I’m really excited about Friday and I’ll be performing my tricks. Lulu is a good friend of mine and he asked me if I would like to perform with them and I agreed. “When I come in during the show on Friday, fans have to see the meaning of Africa through my showcase. I’m ready to blow their minds.” To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  The organiser and lead drummer of Medloko group, Lulu Tsheola, said: “The show is a music platform where artists collaborate in indigenous instruments drums dance. It is a true interpretation of how the drum interconnects with different genres of music. A drum is a very significant instrument so on that day, we will be celebrating Africa, but Africa without drums is nothing.” He said it was crucial for Africans to celebrate where they came from. “As Africans we have to look at ourselves in the mirror and say ‘this is us’. We have to celebrate and look at who we are as it is very important to do that.” Medleko, from Pretoria, is an assembly of a fusion of musicians with different music and dance genres such as house, hip hop, Latin and jazz. It is an energetic drumming that uses soulful music and dance. The group works with young people to develop traditional African skills in dance, music and theatre. The group has performed at a Nelson Mandela birthday function, represented South Africa in Australia, and collaborated with the Sounds Live Choir.