Her father, identified only as Mr S to protect the girl’s identity, told the Pretoria News that his daughter, now a law student at the University of Pretoria, was doing much better. However, they were set on fighting their case before the Equality Court as it was a matter of principle. “You always hear about the dangers of social media, but once it happens to you, you realise how close to home it is. It was a shock when she told us in tears what happened. This is about the principle of the matter, because how many other girls and women are being subjected to these bullying tactics?” The picture of the girl wearing the Affies cap was posted in 2015 on the social media platform SnapChat and caused an outcry among 28 pupils of Affies at the time. They took to WhatsApp to in no uncertain terms voice their anger towards the girl. Sexual threats were made regarding her, only identified as Miss S as she was under age at the time. Her parents turned to the Equality Court, sitting at the Pretoria Magistrate’s Court, as they felt that the school did not deal sufficiently with the offending pupils. The boys received three detention sessions and some of their privileges were taken away for a while. The then teenager’s ordeal started on August 6, 2015, while she was playing a game called “beerpong” with some Affies old boys. One had his former school’s cap with him and placed it on the head of the teenager. Her friend send her a screenshot the next day regarding the group conversation on WhatsApp about her wearing the cap. The picture had sparked the wrath of the pupils, who added her to the WhatsApp conversation. It contained foul language and threats such as that they will “f*** her up” for wearing the cap. They also made derogatory and personal remarks regarding her and even her parents. The father said they had settled the matter against one of the boys who was involved in bullying his daughter. “He came to us and said he was sorry and he did not agree with what was said on the WhatsApp group, but that he was scared not to participate due to peer pressure.” As part of his punishment the court ordered that he had to undergo sensitivity programmes and had to do community service at a centre for abused women. “He told us this had opened his eyes. He had to undergo some sessions and he also spoke to some of the women,” Mr S said. “To us it is not about the R100000 we are claiming; we want these boys to truly have remorse and to learn from their mistakes. I am not placing all the blame on the school, as discipline starts at home.” Mr S said the incident happened during the month in which 16 days of no violence against women and children campaign was marked. “There are so many abused women - physically and mentally - who cannot stand up for themselves. We are doing this for them, and we want to make a difference and show that this kind of behaviour will not be tolerated. “This thing hit me like an emotional bomb. How does a father handle this when it happens to his daughter. To me she is my princess We know it will be a difficult road ahead. But we will fight this, not just for us, but for others as well.”