The former DA chief whip, in the days when the party was official opposition in council, doused the flames that engulfed the metro regarding her tertiary qualification - or lack thereof - when she resigned late on Thursday. This was about 48 hours after it emerged that she had no tertiary qualification required for the R1.2million job she had occupied since 2016. To unpack the importance of the title of chief of staff, Aucamp was co-ordinator of the support staff of the mayor. In general, as chief of staff she provided a buffer between Msimanga and his direct team and was thus responsible for the day-to-day functioning of the mayor, literally. She reported directly to municipal manager Dr Moeketsi Mosola. Msimanga sat on the panel that interviewed her for the job. At that point, Aucamp had made it clear in her application and during the interview that she only had matric. Not that there was anything wrong with that; deployees to political offices everywhere only have to share the same vision as the ruling party. That is the primary prerequisite; Aucamp, a strict disciplinarian who is meticulous about details and had managed the DA caucus, fitted the bill. It is widely known that most senior managers in government have no tertiary qualification, but are employed on a waiver and condition that they acquire it within a stipulated period. In Tshwane, this is five years. And in local government when potential employees do not meet the criteria, an application for a waiver has to be made to the Co-operative Governance and Traditional Affairs Ministry. The City made no such an application, despite Aucamp being its strongest candidate. She had an advantage of having been chief whip. In that job, she kept in check the second largest caucus in council after the ruling ANC at the time. Records show she was the best candidate for the chief of staff job by far, even outscoring applicants with tertiary qualifications. While documents that have been circulated in the past week make no mention of a tertiary qualification, her personal information sheet compiled by the external agents who assessed the applicants indicate that she has a BTech. It is unknown who added this information, which was not contained in either her CV nor mentioned during the interview with the Msimanga panel. Msimanga has since commissioned an investigation into the matter. However, the truth is the facts are just not adding up. Aucamp was shortlisted for one of the most important jobs in the metro and passed with flying colours. She was employed, but no waiver was applied for by the City. Did someone sleep on the job or was the designated official instructed not to apply for the waiver? Her boss Mosola wrote to her asking for proof of her qualification in February, to which she responded within the stipulated time, with her matric certificate. That letter was leaked, giving rise to the biggest scandal to hit the Msimanga administration. Who leaked the private communication between employer and employee and for what purpose? She then resigns, and Msimanga states he too will quit as mayor if the probe found him guilty of any 
wrongdoing. The statement from Msimanga’s spokesperson Samkelo Mgobozi said Aucamp was asked to resign, but in a radio interview a day later, she disputed this and said she in fact resigned out of respect for the DA and the mayor. Until proven otherwise when a report of the investigation comes out, Aucamp was thrown under the bus and at the worst back-stabbed. Her departure was seemingly orchestrated, and as is usually the case in politics, it could be by people unhappy with her strict approach and enforcement of rules or people with political ambitions. In announcing her resignation, Msimanga referred to “prima face ecidence before us”, but the big question is, who wanted Aucamp out of the Tshwane highest office so badly? Mudzuli is Pretoria News assistant editor. He writes in a personal capacity.