Pretoria - Don't ever feel bad to invade your teenager’s privacy by checking with whom she is communicating on social media. She may not like it, but it is for her own good. This was the advice of the mother of a 16-year-old girl, who was one of the victims of the so-called "Facebook rapist". The mother told the Pretoria News that her daughter had lied to her and told her that she was going to a friend’s house to study. The teenager meanwhile arranged to meet her new Facebook friend, which ended in her being raped. “If only I checked-up on my daughter and was aware of who she was friends with. I didn't even know she was on Facebook.” The Mamelodi East man befriended young women - mostly teenagers - on Facebook and later communicated with them through WhatsApp before he met them in person and raped and robbed them. The clean shaven and well kept Sedzani Muthuhadini Ndou was barely 18-years-old when he ran a reign of terror among young women,  especially in Mamelodi. He was earlier convicted in the Gauteng High Court, Pretoria, on 16 charges, ranging from mostly rape to robbery, after he admitted his evil deeds. He had raped five women over about a three month period in 2016, before he was eventually arrested. Ndou placed pictures of handsome sports stars on Facebook named Junior and called on women to communicate with him. The five victims in this case fell for the handsome man and they arranged to meet. In each case he arrived at the meeting place and claimed that his handsome friend was a bit late, but that the friend asked him to accompany the woman to his house. He pounced on the unsuspecting women and raped and robbed them. His arrest came about after a friend of one of the teenagers lured him into a trap when she too, befriended him on Facebook. The two made arrangements to meet, but unbeknown to Ndou, she took the police along to their meeting spot. Although Ndou was only connected via DNA evidence to three of the victims, who were aged between 15 and 21, he was ready to admit to all the charges against him. It was, however, said in court that apart from all his victims who identified him as their attacker, the fact that his modus operandi was always the same, left no doubt that he was the culprit in all the cases. The 16-year-old victim’s mother meanwhile warned parents to be extra vigilant when it came to their teenage daughters. "There comes a stage when they try and move away from you when they become more independent, but we must remain involved in what they are doing, even if it means invading their privacy.” Her advice to teenagers is to never trust strangers, no matter what they look like. She said young girls should never go alone to meet a prospective boyfriend for the first time. She must rather invite him to her parental home. The mother said she understood that it is especially difficult for single, working parents to keep tabs on their children, but they should at all times be aware of the dangers of social media. “As Christians we will forgive him and I know she will also one day. But for now she is still very angry.” Pre-sentencing reports regarding Ndou and the victims will be placed before court on Friday. Pretoria News