The department said most of the armed robbers managed to get away and have not yet been arrested. "Between August 2017 and May 22, 2018, a total 96 cash-in-transit cases have been reported, while 44 armoured vehicles were attacked,” the department said. “Very few suspects were arrested, there are only 11 cases where arrests were made while 85 suspects are still at large. The actual number of suspects arrested to date is 26 in total.” The department said so far R95m in cash had been recovered from the crime scenes. In addition, firearms and other items had been recovered. The guns include  AK47 rifles, R5, R4, BM 4, and 9mm pistols. As many as 16 vehicles were recovered from the suspects. Two police radios, two military bulletproof vests were also recovered. The department said two warrants of arrest had yet to be executed. MEC Sizakele Nkosi-Malobane met law enforcement agencies on Monday to come up with ways to curb the increasing spate of cash-in-transit heists that add to the escalating violent crimes gripping South Africa. "Criminals are proving to be sophisticated lately, therefore a collective approach to deal with cash heists is critical. "It is important that we commit all our resources and engage all the law enforcement agencies in the province to deal with this challenge. "We cannot allow these criminals to walk our streets and instil fear among citizens," Nkosi-Malobane said. "I have instructed the crime intelligence team to work around the clock to ensure that all suspects linked to the heists are arrested and ensure that maximum sentences are imposed [by the courts]. "All law enforcement agencies and specialised units must work together to deal with the scourge of cash-in-transit heists." Nkosi-Malobane said investigators needed to work together with private security and stop syndicates that supply explosives used by robbers to bomb cash vehicles. Last week Police Minister Bheki Cele said tactical response and tracking teams would be deployed in intelligence operations dedicated to fighting high priority crimes, including cash-in-transit heists. -  African News Agency (ANA)