This is despite the displeasure from political parties that a previous budget of R32 million yielded little or no results. The amount in question was mentioned by mayor Solly Msimanga during his maiden budget speech last year. At the time, he announced that the City had put aside an amount of R32m to refurbish the stadium. He further said an additional R35m would be made available in the 2018/19 financial year. Last Thursday, in his budget speech, he again spoke about the R35m meant to bring the stadium up to Premier Soccer League standards. He was, however, mum on how the R32m from the previous year was spent on the project. Both the ANC and EFF have expressed dissatisfaction with the slow pace at which the project was being implemented. Regional EFF leader Benjamin Disoloane said: “There is no progress on the Caledonian stadium. There was previously a budget allocated to the project and nothing happened. We want to see the results as soon as possible.” The ANC's Refilwe Kekana said: “Caledonian stadium has always been on the menu for the City, as well as Refilwe stadium.” According to Msimanga, the project will, in this financial year, see new buildings being added to the 116-year-old stadium. He said the stadium would boast a soccer museum, a multi-purpose hall and a sports retail shop. The new features had the potential to woo tourists to the facility, where they would be exposed to a display of the city's football legends, he said. Last year’s promise by Msimanga to develop the Caledonian stadium got him into trouble with Arcadia Shepherds Football Club manager Lucky Manna, who accused him of failing to consult his club before the announcement. Manna said the club was not consulted prior to the announcement, despite it having used the facility since 1903. He believed the club should have been consulted because it fought to save the stadium when it was under threat of being demolished by the previous ANC-led municipality. The ANC had plans to demolish the stadium and turn it into a park. The stadium has a very rich history in South Africa, as it is where football stars like Mark Fish, Bongani Khumalo and Itumeleng Khune honed their skills. Meanwhile, Msimanga also announced that an amount of R20m would be injected into the development of Refilwe stadium to upgrade the soccer pitch, gymnasium and athletic track. Another huge project on the City’s development agenda is HM Pitje stadium in Mamelodi. Msimanga said the City was in consultation with the provincial government to make sure the township-based stadium was also given a facelift. “During the last financial year we allocated R1m towards HM Pitje to determine a way forward with the stadium. In order to bring the stadium up to Fifa-accredited standards it would require approximately R160m,” he said. Several meetings had taken place over the past two years with representatives from the provincial Department of Infrastructure, he said. During those meetings different project implementation options were discussed, he added. “The City is proposing to be the implementing agent on behalf of the provincial government and further recommends that a project steering committee be established, chaired by the Gauteng province.” He said City manager Dr Moeketsi Mosola would be empowered to enter into a memorandum of understanding with the provincial government. “The agreement will indicate the scope of work, and further include the planning, design and construction of the stadium. "All technical information relating to the structural assessment and concept developed or any other relevant information to assist the project was made available to Gauteng province as per its request.”