AfriForum chief executive Alana Bailey said the judgment came as a great disappointment. “The verdict is not in line with developments in the field of language rights currently taking place nationally and internationally,” Bailey said. “Worldwide there is an increasing need for the promotion of more mother languages and the development of multilingual environments wherein greater social cohesion and better academic achievements are attained. "However, South African government departments and most universities unfortunately do not take note of this, but continue rushing ahead along a monolingual path.” According to Bailey, the Draft Revised Language Policy for Higher Education recently published for public comment, displayed an encouraging understanding of the complexity of the language situation in South Africa - and the need for the use of more languages for teaching  and administration purposes at universities. AfriForum earlier turned to court to review and set aside Unisa’s English-only policy. According to the language policy, English has since the start of last year been the only language of instruction at the institution. Unisa made it clear that it was doing away with Afrikaans as a study medium as part of its policy and for practical reasons. AfriForum, however, said this left between 25000 and 30000 Afrikaans-speaking students without the option to conduct their studies in their mother tongue. Unisa’s administration went ahead with the implementation of its new language policy last year after the court, in 2016, turned down an application by AfriForum to suspend the implementation of the English-only language policy, pending the review proceedings. Judge Roland Sutherland at the time concluded that first-year and other Afrikaans students would not suffer irreparable harm if English remained the only medium until the court had spoken the last word on review. Unisa vice-chancellor Professor Mandla Makhanya issued a circular in June 2016 in which he announced that the university’s new policy was that learning was now restricted to  English. Advocate Johan du Toit SC for AfriForum argued that this decision was made without Unisa’s Senate calling for any public participation. But Judge Raylene Keightley, in turning down AfriForum’s application, said while Unisa was free to call for public participation, it was not bound to do so. Du Toit also argued that the case of Unisa was different to that of the University of the Free State, where the Constitutional Court held that it had to continue teaching in English. The Constitutional Court last December said the use of Afrikaans unintentionally became a facilitator of ethnic or cultural separation and tension. Judge Keightley found that Unisa’s Senate acted in accordance with the rules when it adopted the English-only language policy. She said the new language policy has been in place since last year - more than a full academic year and at least three semesters. She referred to arguments on behalf of Unisa, in which it said that if the court now ruled against it, it would not be practically possible to revert back overnight to the position it was in at the start of the 2016 academic year. The judge commented that there has been a natural decline in the demand for Afrikaans tuition in recent years. “It is inevitable that there would be a further reduction of demand as a consequence of Unisa having offered English-only tuition since the start of 2017. “To turn back the clock would have obvious practical, resource and cost implications for Unisa for the benefit of an ever diminishing small number of students.” The judge said the English-only policy furthered equity and is a significant step towards addressing the wrongs of the past. However, she said unfortunately English still retained a privileged status at the institution for purely pragmatic reasons.