The fire left a newborn baby and two adults severely burnt and they had to be rushed to hospital. One person died in the blaze. More than 340 residents were left homeless after fire gutted 223 of the 1000 shacks. Of the residents of the area, 75% are undocumented foreign nationals who are not on the housing beneficiary list. The fire was the second in as many days in the area; on Saturday at least 50 shacks were gutted by fire, leaving almost 500 people homeless at Plastic View 1. The cause of the second fire was still being investigated, but arson was suspected. The Saturday fire had been caused by a paraffin stove. Despite reports that the area would soon be developed for low-cost housing, most shacks had been been fully rebuilt yesterday. The residents were using thin wooden poles and plastics as materials to build their homes. Affected residents said they had been forced to sleep with friends, neighbours and families as they did not have shelter. Oriel Thete said: “The fortunate ones have their employers bringing them material to rebuild, but I have no one. I’ll just clean up my space and wait.” The 34-year-old recalled being woken up by people screaming at about 1am on Monday. His shack then caught fire. “I lost my passport and all my personal documents. I have nothing to my name now except the clothes I’m wearing. “I had to ask for a place to sleep from friends, but that can’t be the case every day,” he told the Pretoria News. Another resident said: “Things are really bad and we need urgent assistance. I slept with my friend and luckily his shack didn’t catch fire. “At least tonight I’ll sleep at my own place because as you can see I’m almost done rebuilding,” he said. Meanwhile, donations poured in for the residents of the two informal settlements as the public heeded the call by Executive Mayor Solly Msimanga to assist the fire victims. Mattresses, sheets, clothes and mostly non-perishable food was brought in and left at the local church for the more than 1000, including women and children, left destitute by the fires. Calls continued to pour in for decisive action to be taken for the safety of the residents of the area and others in similar situations.