Fuel prices will rise sharply at midnight, with petrol going up by as much as R1 a litre, the Energy Department said yesterday. The 95 octane petrol will now cost a record high of R17.08 in Gauteng and R16.49 at the coast, while the wholesale diesel price will rise by R1.24 to R15.64 in Gauteng and R15.16 at the coast. The wholesale price of illuminating paraffin will jump by R1.04 per litre. The Automobile Association (AA) said the fuel price hike would extract R2.5 billion a month in transport costs from an economy that was already on the ropes. “Excluding months where fuel taxes were hiked, this will be the largest single fuel price increase South Africa has ever experienced,” the AA said. Trade union Uasa said the latest fuel price increase was the final straw crippling South Africa’s workers. Uasa spokesperson Andre Venter said: “As from tomorrow workers will not only fork out for the most expensive fuel price ever, but will also have to deal with the ripple effect on the cost of transport - taking them to work and back, as well as the inevitable increase in food prices and other household necessities.” Venter said attributing the increase to the weakening rand exchange rate which would not solve ordinary South African workers' financial distress. Uasa agrees with the AA’s opinion that the spike was rather the result of the country’s economic policy which had left South Africans defenceless against upticks in international oil prices. “The department’s ridiculous intervention trick in September to provide relief against fuel price hikes by increasing the price by just 4.9c a litre has now exploded in the faces of the workers on whom the economy rests,” said Venter. Economist Azir Jammine said the financial burdens were a result of the past seven years of being in a recession. “We are in a full-scale recession at this moment. It is a case of whether we will come out of the recession I am still hopeful. Essentially, the fuel price increase involves consumers, according to my calculation, having to spend R3.70 extra for every R1000 they have.” Jammine said he was hopeful there would be a price decrease soon. “It can happen next month depending on what happens to the rand and the oil price. The rand has rallied significantly and if it improves further it might go down. The oil price is very difficult to predict because it is a victim of the sanctions that US President Donald Trump imposed. There is a chance we might see the decrease in November.” The DA is calling on the government to cancel the fuel levy as a way of unburdening motorists. “The solution is simple. We must review the burdensome levies on fuel with the aim of reducing them by at least R1 in the short term. This will ease the burden on South Africans. It is possible to fund any shortfall created by this cut through sensible fiscal reform. By trimming the bloated Cabinet and reforming state-owned entities, and by making a serious effort to curb government corruption, a cut in the fuel levy is possible,” said DA spokesperson Solly Malatsi. But Jammine said it was not as simple as that. “If they scrap the fuel levy then they have to find money elsewhere. The government needs the fuel levy and is using it as a good source of income. It accounts for 5% of government revenue. If it is scrapped, the government has to find that 5% elsewhere - either by taxing the rich or increasing VAT or company tax.” - African News Agency (ANA)