DURBAN – Tsogo Sun has announced the appointment of its first female director of operations KwaZulu-Natal Hotels, Samantha Croft. Croft’s strong knowledge and understanding of the hospitality and tourism sector, particularly in strategic business development and in driving corporate social responsibility initiatives has led her to the region’s leading role. She has a 26-year career in the industry and she has focused on building and developing young talent and has diligently supported the community, stakeholder and government initiatives to achieve tourism goals in the city. “It is my honour to be appointed to this key position in the Durban region. Tsogo Sun is committed to building a talent pool of highly skilled professionals focusing our commitment to service excellence," said Croft. On her plans for the Tsogo Sun KwaZulu-Natal hotels Croft said, "My plans are to improve the performance of the hotels, not only financially but seeing them as being recognised as Iconic in Durban, based on their strengths and different service delivery". She added that as a hotelier, she is passionate about growing new talent and bringing a distinctive and stronger Tsogo Sun touch to our city. After graduating in Hospitality and Tourism Management, she joined Southern Sun hotels. She has worked at hotels like The Palace of the Lost City and the Garden Court De Waal as well as the Southern Sun North Beach. At the Southern Sun Elangeni and Maharani Hotel Croft oversaw the multi-million rand refurbishment project, According to Croft, the most important aspect of the hospitality industry, she says, is to have the right attitude. "Sincerity and willingness to serve, and the dedication that comes with that, are vital and of course there are challenges, but they’re all part of a great job. You have to look for solutions and move forward as a team" said Croft. Her vast experience in the industry has seen Croft gather a keen sense of what Durban needs to make it the best destination for locals and visitors. The new director of operations is constantly keeping herself up to date with tourism trends and developments and is keen to explore areas for improvement. Croft said, "I am committed to customer service and also strive to create a pleasant working environment for all. I am keenly interested in developing people too". Tsogo Sun Hotels chief executive Marcel von Aulock said, "We are confident that this milestone, the appointment of the first, female regional Director of Operations will inspire other women across the country to pursue their career aspirations in hospitality". Follow the Business Report on Instagram here BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE