According to management of the dealership, Uber operations in the vicinity posed a safety risk to its operation and customers. In turning to the Gauteng High Court, Pretoria, the Renault and Kia Fountains Dealership said numerous incidents had happened when metered taxi drivers confronted the Uber drivers. It said that if these incidents persisted, the dealership would need to close its doors and move out of the Pretoria CBD, which it did not want to do. Management said that it was important to keep a business such as this dealership in the CBD in order to prevent the urban decay that was prevalent in many other cities. The court earlier issued an urgent interim order warning Uber to instruct all its drivers operating in the area of the Gautrain Station to refrain from picking up and dropping passengers at the dealership. The cab operator was told to send messages to its drivers in this regard and ensure that the drivers complied with the order. Those who did not adhere to the rule were due to have their accounts deactivated. Uber was given time to oppose the order, which it did not do until now. The court last week confirmed its interim order. Martin Smit, a dealer principal at the dealership, said in papers before court that a large number of Gautrain passengers use e-hailing services such as Uber and others. The problem was that metered taxi drivers were not happy with this; they felt that e-hailing services were killing their business with unfair low prices and thus stealing their jobs. This escalated into violence, which Smit said was especially prevalent at the Gautrain stations and at OR Tambo International Airport. He said that since September last year there were several cases in which metered taxi drivers assaulted and even killed e-hailing drivers. “The violence persists to this day,” he said. Smit stated that metered taxis also parked in the vicinity of the dealership, mostly on the pavements. Whenever an Uber driver attempted to pick up a commuter at the pick-up point, metered taxi drivers pounced. “Passengers will be pulled out of the vehicle and the driver will be assaulted. As a result Uber drivers discouraged passengers from using the pick-up point and opt to use our dealership as a pick-up point.” Smit said this caused many problems for the dealership. He referred to a couple from Cape Town, who were told to board at the dealership as a pick-up point, but were threatened by metered taxi drivers. Employees tried to intervene, but they were threatened and told that the dealership would be set alight. Four days later taxi drivers tried to block a driver from Uber from leaving the dealership with his passengers and tried to set the vehicle alight. Again employees tried to intervene and was told the dealership would be burnt down. Smit gave several examples of this conduct, including where an assaulted Uber driver ran into the dealership for cover. He said they simply could not handle this anymore. He said he spoke to the South African operations manager of Uber about the problems, who undertook to speak to the drivers. Smit said that despite this undertaking and a sign saying they must not do this, Uber drivers persisted in picking up passengers at the dealership. He said customers who witnessed this were so fed up that they threatened no longer to have their cars serviced there because they felt unsafe. “The solution is not to beef up security here. The drivers simply should not use us as a pick-up point,” Smit said.