He warned people residing next to the road in the north-east of Pretoria that the government would not fix the road if they intentionally damage it during protests. Vadi told volatile residents from the nearby communities of Rust de Winter and Mkhombo Nature Reserve that violent service demonstrations wasted government resources and set communities back. Vadi and Tshwane MMC for Transport Sheila Lynn Senkubuge cut the ribbon to officially open the R158 million rehabilitated road. The 11.5km road was previously gravel, and it is now expected to boost the economy by enabling efficient transportation of goods and products between the provinces. Vadi said: “It is important to have a culture where our people look after infrastructure. It doesn’t help if communities burn schools and clinics. From our point of view, if you burn these big tyres it damages the road and after rains there will be a big pothole there. “People have the right to protest, but that should not damage the infrastructure because tomorrow when the protests are over the school is damaged, the clinic is damaged and the road is damaged; how does that help the cause?” Earlier this year, Vadi launched the 17km Road D670 between Bronkhorstspruit and Ekangala in the east of the city after a rehabilitation project. At the time, he said communities whose roads had technical names needed to give these roads names because they belonged to them. “These D and K code names are technical specifications, and many people can’t identify with these names. They don’t have a clue where they are. “You would have seen that a few days ago in the Gauteng legislature, I proposed that 20 major routes be renamed after prominent politicians, sport people, business leaders and various artists.” Built over 20 months, the project created just more than 100 jobs for locals. The people were also trained in various fields including HIV awareness, First Aid Level 1, hazardous chemicals, firefighting, tipper truck and water cart control. Vadi said the rehabilitation of these major roads was investments that would increase the flow of goods and services to stimulate the local economy and foster social integration. Ward councillor Johann Welmans said the community was very proud of the road and the fact that construction took place smoothly without interruptions, except a few months' extension for final touches.