MEC for Community Safety Sizakele Nkosi-Malobane made a good point when she visited Erasmia police station in the capital. After expressing her unhappiness that some officers were not wearing bulletproof vests or uniforms, she lamented the poor treatment they dish out to the members of the public. Police do not have to be the darlings of the public, but if they are to execute their mandate effectively, they have to do so in uniform. Although security guards, nurses and others wear uniform, few can match the respect earned by a police officer in uniform. There is a level of calm and an air of peace when a police officer in uniform appears. As for bulletproof vests; ours is a volatile society and one of the most crime-ridden countries. A policeman without this resource is therefore useless to the nation because he risks getting shot and killed should he be called into action. Nkosi-Malobane’s appeal for the men and women in blue to treat members of the public with respect was another statement that stood out. Crime victims will find it easier to interact with police if they feel warmth upon entering a police station. If people do not feel welcome, they will think twice about going to stations to report crime. May her message be spread to other police stations in the province and around the country, not just reserved for the police officers at Erasmia police station. Talking of crime, the self-inflicted pain of those responsible for vandalising street lights to steal the globes is sinking to the lowest level of crime, to say the least. The lights are there for a reason - to safeguard the same communities that now see them as a pot of gold. Also to be condemned in the strongest possible terms is the Correctional Services officer who was caught on camera drunk and struggling to stay on his feet, while in uniform. That is not what taxpayers pay him to do. In court, a wife killer was sentenced to 15 years. The “trash” told the court he lost his cool in an argument and bashed the woman’s head against a wall. He had been on the run for seven years and eventually handed himself in. Shame on him. We also hope justice will prevail in the trial of those accused of murdering actor Dumisani Masilela. May his soul rest in peace. - Kennedy Mudzuli (Assistant editor)