“You should appreciate that we are dealing with a law enforcement issue here and I’m not going to disclose operational or deployment numbers,” City of Tshwane spokesperson Selby Bokaba said. “Doing that would be playing right into the hands of criminals who monitor various media platforms to plan and execute their nefarious activities.” Instead, Bokaba said metro police had in the past three months effected 114 arrests for crimes through the help of the CCTV surveillance cameras. These included drunk driving, assault, theft out of motor vehicles, theft of motor vehicles and bribery. Bokaba said a new tender had already been advertised and applications were set to come before a bid adjudication committee next week. “The City acknowledges the significant role the surveillance cameras play in the fight against crime, hence the urgent need to expeditiously evaluate the tender next week with a view to awarding the contract as soon as possible,” Bokaba said. The contract with service provider Morubisi Technologies ended last November, but was extended on a temporary basis from December until June this year, when the contractor permanently parted ways with the City. The ANC said this week that crime could be on the increase as a result of the non-functional CCTV system. ANC regional spokesperson Bafuze Yabo said cameras that covered places such as Marabastad, the CBD, Arcadia, Sunnyside, Hatfield, Brooklyn, Water- kloof, Groenkloof, Muckleneuk, Garsfontein, the Menlyn area, Centurion, Lynnwood and Mooikloof were not working. It has emerged that several cameras are not working, and although metro police officers were working at the control centre, they had not taken over the overall monitoring of the surveillance system. Community Security MMC Anniruth Kissoonduth said about 50% of the cameras were working on Wednesday, but for some strange reason they had been switched off by yesterday. He said the City would dispatch technicians to examine the cause of the problem. Asked about how the non-operational cameras would affect the City’s fight against crime, he said: “To be quite honest with you, it will affect our fight against crime to an extent, but that will be until the new tender is in place.” He said the City had beefed up its monitoring team by deploying more metro police officers. He said there were 15 full-time workers stationed at the centre.