This came to the fore yesterday as the country and world commemorated World Food Day. This is a day in which everyone is asked to spare a thought for the hungry. The dire wastage was detailed in a 2017 report by the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF), which detailed that in South Africa, approximately 10 billion kilograms of food went to waste every year. Titled, Food Loss and Waste: Facts and Futures, and mapping out the hazards of wasted healthy, nutritious food in the country, the report said the majority of the food types sent down the drain was a staggering 70% of fruits, vegetables and cereals, primarily lost through the food supply chain. According to the report, there were various stages in the food value chain in South Africa that generated food waste, with retailers accounting for 20% of that figure. The CSIR also valued the loss at R61.5billion. Tebogo Mpufane, of the Tshwane Homelessness Forum, and Kopano Manyano, of God the Founder Centre for the Homeless, said the statistics regarding millions of tons of food wastage was but a small picture of how dire things really were. Mpufane said while it would be possible for people from villages to be able to plant and source their food, things were much more difficult for those stranded in the inner city. He said homelessness in the capital had increased exponentially since 1994, to the point where the homeless were scattered around from Mandela Drive all the way to Pretoria West. With regards to food wasted by retailers, Mpufane previously pleaded with local retailers to consider donating their surplus foods, but to no avail. “One way for us to balance the situation to some extent would be if mega stores or retailers gave out some of their food close to their sell by date instead of throwing it in the bin. People going hungry in the inner city is an elephant sized problem that is not going to vanish without stakeholders willing to play their part.” Furthermore, Mpufane said getting a decent meal was crucial to some of the homeless persons who were on medication, and those trying to get off substance abuse through the use of methadone. “These people need a decent mealfor them to take their medication and lead better lives. At the moment, we can only offer gratitude to people like Mageshree Naidoo from the City’s Food Bank, who are really going the extra mile to help out homeless organisations in the inner city.” Andre Nel, general manager of sustainability at Pick * Pay, said reducing wastage was a strong focus for the company.