He spoke at the memorial service for the former apartheid minister. “I’m sure we would not be in the trouble that we are in today. Such non-conformance in the upper-echelons of the country's leadership have long pointed out that it needs a change of direction.” Mbeki, who was with Botha three days before his death, said he valued his mischievous behaviour. “The contribution Pik made to sharpen South Africa is well known and does not require me to repeat it here. To me Pik was a friend. Pik was great mischief maker, always a thorn on the side of the establishment and this is what I most valued about Pik.” Mbeki also said Botha contributed in laying a foundation for South Africans, and it was now upon everyone to build on it to create a winning nation. The service, attended by family, friends, media, dignitaries and the public was at Wonderpark Dutch Reformed Church in Pretoria, was packed. It was held shortly after a private burial ceremony at the nearby Heatherdale cemetery. Former president FW de Klerk and Chief Justice Mogoeng Mogoeng were also in attendance. Botha’s son Piet rendered a musical item during the service. Botha died in Pretoria two weeks ago, aged 86, after being hospitalised with heart problems. He served as foreign affairs minister in the last years of the apartheid government and minister of mineral and energy affairs under then president Nelson Mandela. Botha retired from politics in 1996 when the National Party withdrew from the government of national unity. In 2000, he announced that he would join the ANC. Botha’s family described him as a man of God who was peaceful and often questioned people’s existence on Earth. His close friend Vic Zazeraj said: “He was husband, a father, a family man. He had an enquiring mind, always asking questions. He carried his faith and Bible with him throughout his life. “Few knew of his intensity, private and personal, in the word of God. It is not the side of him they often saw. For those who knew him well, it is the characteristic that explains him best.”