The latest, a young girl from a nearby primary school died yesterday from injuries sustained when she was hit by a speeding Quantum. Residents said the car ploughed into her, sending her into the air before dragging her. Witnesses yesterday told the Pretoria News they wished they could erase the horrific scene from minds to retain their sanity. The accident brought the number of people hit on the already notorious road to four people in just under a week. Three women said they felt like they were losing their minds after seeing what they called a “gruesome and inhumane” act by the driver. They said they were standing on the side of the road when a white Toyota Quantum came speeding down the road. The driver lost control and crashed into a small child who was standing on the side of the road, waiting to cross. The vehicle, believed to be a taxi, had no passengers. “The young child was flung up in the air and landed meters away from the taxi, but because the taxi was at high speed, it drove over the child and dragged her a few meters on the gravel before finally stopping,” said Selemina Mashigo. But that was not the end of it, the witnesses said. They said the driver then proceeded to pick up the girl from the side of the road, and he placed her in the middle of the road. “I suspect he wanted to make it look like the girl was trying to cross the road,” Mashigo said. Police arrived at the accident scene and took the driver into custody, she said. On Friday, an elderly woman was also hit by a Polo Vivo and was taken to Dr George Mukhari Hospital with broken limbs. The two other incidents involved a high school pupil and another young woman. Yesterday, residents took matters into their own hands and built a speed bump. Residents said the speed bump, made of cement and sand, were temporary until authorities could build proper speed calming measures. Using picks and shovels and bags of cement, residents created a mixture of speed bumps and ditches across a number of streets in an effort to force motorists to slow down.