The locals, especially backyard dwellers, had on several occasions engaged with the City of Tshwane and the provincial Department of Human Settlements about the process to allocate them the houses. On November 28 last year, the backyard dwellers, under the guidance of the EFF leader in the area Peter Seolela, moved into the houses without prior permission from relevant authorities. Their illegal occupation of houses was, however, expected to be short-lived after MMC for Human Settlements Mandla Nkomo indicated that the Tshwane Metro Police and SAPS officers would be asked to evict them. After the threats, the province filed an urgent court interdict in the Gauteng High Court, Pretoria, against the illegal occupation. The court dismissed this and the outcome was interpreted by residents as a victory. It was a moment of celebration for the occupants, who danced near the court before they departed to their new homes. But the department went back to court in May this year, seeking the eviction court order. The order was granted, but the community applied to the court to have it suspended. That application was dismissed in July. This sparked violent protests with disgruntled members of the community barricading the R55 route with burning tyres and rocks. They demanded that the government provide them with basic services such as water and electricity. The EFF provincial structure joined the fray, warning both Tshwane Executive Mayor Solly Msimanga and MEC Uhuru Moiloa to desist from making threats to evict people. The steering committee, which led the process to allocate houses, claimed that at least 1000 people were handed over houses keys. The allocation took place after more than 2000 people threatened to occupy empty houses. At the time, Nkomo said there were 1000 houses built by the provincial government. They were built by the ANC administration, but they could not be allocated to beneficiaries because of a long-standing dispute involving residents of Olievenhoutbosch and Mooiplaats. The problems over the allocations of houses dated back to 2015 when the City halted the relocation of residents from Mooiplaats to Olievenhoutbosch Extensions 27 and 42 after it encountered resistance from locals. Authorities said the decision to relocate the Mooiplaats residents was necessary because the land was privately-owned and the area where they stayed was dolomitic and close to a landfill site, which posed serious health risks. This conflicted with the wishes of the backyard dwellers, who wanted to be considered first.