This was in a letter dated September 27, 2018, leaked to the Pretoria News, which Mosola’s lawyers wrote to Executive Mayor Solly Msimanga. In the letter, the lawyers express concern about the council’s appointment of chief operating officer (COO) James Murphy to lead the process of appointing an independent investigator to probe the possibility of financial misconduct on Mosola’s part. The allegations of misconduct surfaced after Mosola awarded a tender to GladAfrica to assist the City in rolling out infrastructure projects valued at R12billion. The lawyers discredited Murphy’s likely independence because he was “involved in the implementation of the contract he is supposed to investigate”. They also contended that Murphy’s role in procuring the tender had the potential to taint the entire probe. Their other point of contention related to the hiring of law firm Bowmans Attorneys to investigate the matter; the lawyers said it was problematic due to its track record. “Bowmans has previously been used by the City of Cape Town, which is also run by the DA to investigate outgoing mayor Patricia de Lille. Ms De Lille reportedly described the investigative process undertaken by the firm as highly prejudicial. She also pointed out that it had committed numerous errors.” In addition, they questioned the decision by the council to have an independent body probe the allegations, instead of allowing the financial disciplinary board to handle them. “Allegations of financial misconduct can only lawfully be investigated in terms of the financial misconduct regulations” in terms of of the Municipal Finance Management Act. “The executive mayor ought to have established a financial disciplinary board. The upshot of the financial misconduct regulations is that no other body is permitted to investigate financial misconduct,” the lawyers said. They threatened to go to the High Court if Msimanga did not reconsider resolutions taken by the council regarding the investigation. Msimanga confirmed receipt of the letter, saying the City’s legal representatives were responding to it. However, he disputed the argument by the lawyers that the independence of the investigation was at stake due to the delegation of duties to Murphy and the appointment of Bowmans. “Patricia didn’t challenge the integrity of the company; she was saying there might have been flaws in what they found. That cannot be the basis to say this company can’t be used.” Msimanga said the firm was never chosen by him, which was why he left the matter in the hands of the City’s attorneys. “The investigation needs to continue and bring some finality because this has not only tainted the City, it has tainted some people including him (Mosola) and me.” It was important to allow the investigation to continue to reveal if there was something wrong or not. “The longer we delay it the more we are giving the ANC a ball to play with,” he added. Regarding Murphy’s role, he said: “You can’t get a junior personnel member to sign for any procurement in the City. The city manager can’t sign because he is part of the investigation that needs to take place.The COO has been questioned in terms of who gets to sign.” He said the City had followed legal processes according to the advice it received in terms of the decisions it made regarding the probe. “It is in line with what has been advised. You have somebody who is outside the scope of management of the City it then becomes an irregular expenditure.” The lawyers had given the City until October 30 to respond to their queries, but Msimanga said the legal representatives needed more time to do so. “There is a group of lawyers compiling the answers. We need to have enough time to reply properly to what has been put by Mosola’s lawyers."