During last week’s downpour which hit the capital and province, a number of drains were blocked. This was because of accumulation of litter clogging the drains, mayoral spokesperson Samkelo Mgobozi said. One major challenge to efficiency of stormwater drainage systems in the so-called township areas, over and above the inadequate stormwater systems development, was illegal dumping in the open channels, streams and kerb inlets. Mgobozi was responding to residents who had said they longed for “Noah’s Ark” to escape the floods during the rainy season. In Mahube, residents said the stormwater drains along Solomon Mahlangu Road were “useless”. Taxi drivers complained of losing business due to water flowing on the road and causing mammoth potholes. Josephina Mahlasela said water was flowing inside her house, from where she runs her business selling food. “Almost every time it rains water comes into the house it becomes extremely dangerous for staff working with high voltage electrical appliances,” she said. Mamelodi was not the only area that resembled the Red Sea because of the inefficient stormwater drains. A similar fate has faced residents of Soshanguve, Hammanskraal Laudium and Pretoria North since the turn of the season. Following last week’s downpour, traffic had be be directed from the low-water bridges and subways. The subway on Rachel de Beer Street in Pretoria North was one of them. Centurion suffered the same fate when the Hennops River was in full flood. In Soshanguve, Sophie Semenya, who lives in an RDP house in Extension 13, had a battle on hands when rainwater flowed into her house. “I’ve been complaining to the City of Tshwane since 2007 about their poor drainage system, and now it is getting worse.” Semenya said she had to move in with friends following last week’s rains and blamed the City for failing to maintain the infrastructure. But Mgobozi said stormwater drains were maintained whenever there was a need within the specific financial year budget availability. He said the City spent R27841127 in the 2017/18 financial year on maintenance. Ward councillor in Mamelodi East Seabelo Marishane also said existing stormwater systems in the township were clogged up by pollution and debris. “I wouldn’t accredit the clogging to lack of maintenance per se, but more to illegal dumping. The influx and density of people in Mamelodi East causes a rise in illegal dumping,” he said. Marishane tried to have the smelly and clogged up stormwater drain on Solomon Mahlangu Drive cleared. In the process, an excavator hauled out all sorts of waste - from beer bottles, nappies, refuse bags and packets of condoms. Marishane said the flooding on the road posed a serious risk to motorists and could lead to fatalities. “If it’s not death then it’s potholes because stagnant water eats into the tar.”