Flora Bopape said this was worsened by the fact that the damaged mast remained where it had fallen on the children. Her grandchildren Boitsoko Bopape, 11, and 5-year-old Dimpho Bopape were among the five children who died in the tragedy last year on November 4. The children were playing around the light with Kearabile Baloyi, 12, Maikano Mmenu, 9, and Lethabo Mati- bako, 9. Bopape said her family had been let down by the City of Tshwane after it failed to fulfil its promise to remove the light-mast. The only consolation from the City, she said, was the R50000 contribution towards the burial of the children. For every child, the City had contributed R25000. Bopape said: “We asked for the lighting structure to be removed, but it seems no one wants to do that. “I am struggling to cope, especially at night. I can’t sleep because of the flashbacks of the scene on that day.” The light-mast is located behind her yard. She said that every time she saw it, it brought back a horrific picture of the remains of children on the ground. Bopape was speaking ahead of the first anniversary of the “Sosh 5” deaths next month. The families plan to remember the lives of the five children. Her daughter Tsholo was still traumatised, she said, and the trauma was exacerbated by the lighting structure in her sight every day. Elisa Baloyi, whose grandchild Kearabile was among the five, lamented that no one had explained to them why the high lighting mast had not been removed. “Nowadays I am starting to have a picture of my grandchild in my mind. I guess it is because we are going into the month when he died.” Lethabo’s aunt Dineo Matubako said: “We are still trying to accept what happened, but it is difficult. Every time we walk past the structure we feel saddened because it brings to us only sad memories. Things would be better if they can remove it.” In July, Gauteng Premier David Makhura called for an independent probe into the deaths, saying the families of the dead children deserved answers on what actually killed them. Utility Services MMC Darryl Moss said there was nothing the City could do until it had received reports into the tragedy from the SAPS and the Department of Labour. Moss said the issue about the high-mast lighting was still under investigations from the two entities, and would remain a crime scene until all investigations had been concluded. Local councillor Phumzile Hlatshwayo said a commemoration for the children would be held for 13 days from November 4. “Their passing is not in vain, but it serves as a remembrance of our commitment to serve the community better and protect the future of South Africa - our children. “We have a series of activities planned to ensure their story is told and is never forgotten. We must help heal the bereaved families, friends and community members,” Hlatshwayo said.