DURBAN – The Shoprite Group will be rewarding customers for using their newly introduced “planet” bags in both Shoprite and Checkers stores. The bags are made from 100 percent recycled and recyclable plastic, the bigger and stronger “planet” bags retail for R3 each. The reward is that every time a customer re-uses the bag, they get 50c off their grocery purchase. The newer bag is 70 microns and will last for many shopping trips. Changing consumer behaviour by rewarding customers for re-using bags is an important part of the retailer’s efforts to cut down on plastic waste. In 2013 the retailer became the first to introduce recycled and recyclable plastic shopping bags in its Checkers stores. Now, these are available at all Checkers, Shoprite and Usave stores nationally. Shoprite said "The Shoprite Group remains committed to changing consumer behaviour in its efforts to reduce plastic waste, and it is therefore rewarding customers for re-using their new “planet” shopping bags which were introduced about six weeks ago". The Group has a zero waste-to-landfill approach and is committed to reducing waste in its operations. This what Shoprite has done to cut down their waste in their operations: 1. Recycled 3 225 tons of plastic and 26 859 tons of cardboard and white paper. 2. The company has redirected 103 tons of plastic waste from landfill since February 2017 by using food-safe post-consumer waste to replace 25% of the virgin PET material in their Zip Cola bottles, making it the first carbonated drink to contain this percentage of recycled PET material. 3. They have used recyclable material in close to 60% of the packaging used for fruit and vegetables including punnets, trays, bags, pockets and cartons. 4. Introduced completely biodegradable and compostable avo containers for all of its Ripe & Ready avo punnets - the first South African retailer to do so. 5. The packaging of vegetables like broccoli, cauliflower, mixed cauliflower/broccoli, baby marrows, patty pans, baby gems, squash variety and fruit packs will also switch to fully biodegradable and compostable containers from early November. 6. This will reduce Shoprite's use of foam punnets by 3.5 million punnets per annum. Follow the Business Report on Instagram here BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE