This sentiment was expressed yesterday by keynote speaker during the 2018 Avi Afrique Innovation Summit, Dr George Samataa, at the CSIR. The Republic of Namibia national serves as secretary to the cabinet in the office of the prime minister in Windhoek. He told an audience of aviation industry leaders and experts from across the globe that the industry needed to prepare itself for the future by implementing measures to attract young minds that could lead Africa and compete with the rest of the world. He said the next industrial revolution was bringing its own challenges and difficulties, and if Africa planned to compete, it needed to start retaining its talent and upskill the youth from primary schools. “At the moment, Africa is not yet performing at a satisfactory level but I think we are catching up. "However, assessments have shown that Africans are not doing well when it comes to implementations of certain critical elements in safety and that speaks more to inadequate qualifications and competency. “That means we don’t have a sufficient pool of qualified people to deal with this matter. It is important that we pull up our socks. That’s why I spoke about the need for sustainable talent development in a manner that it starts in schools so that we can feed the industry,” he told delegates. Samataa said recordings from 2017 showed that Africa was, so far, at mediocre levels in terms of performance because it has not properly dealt with sustainable skills development. However, he said he acknowledged constraints in terms of resources since some countries were poor but appreciated these kinds of summits for enabling stakeholders to share knowledge-inspired innovations, policy change and solutions implementation. The chief operations officer for Air Traffic and Navigation Services, Dr Sandile Malinga, said the company organised this 7th annual summit to encourage innovation in the industry and inspire stakeholders to break barriers in aviation. “We want to bring different players within our industry from the airlines to air traffic control and regulators. We want everyone to discuss how we could all be more innovative and ensure that there is safety and proficiency as necessary for our industry,” said Malinga.