DURBAN – Forbes has compiled a list of the of the 25 Next Billion-Dollar Startups and they come from a wide range of industries including export and online education to 3D printing and shoes. Forbes partnered with TrueBridge Capital Partners to ask close to 200 venture capital firms to nominate companies that they thought had a good chance of becoming unicorns. Here is a look at 10 Next Billion-Dollar Startups: 1. Amplitude This startup helps companies create better products through advanced analytics. The startup has an estimated $45 million in revenue for 2018. 2. Anduril Industries The co-founder of Anduril Industries is also the man behind the virtual reality handset. The company itself is a defence firm Their main product is a system of thousands of virtual reality handsets that use machine learning to recognise what is happening in the field. 3. Autho This company offers software to easily create a basic login feature and then personalise it with universal logins and custom domains. Autho has estimated 2018 revenue of $50 million. 4. Honey Honey is a free browser extension that sends more than 10 million active users discount codes and cashback rewards for purchases from a variety of online vendors.   5. Welltok Welltok is a healthcare startup that operates as a go-between for healthcare providers and their consumers. The estimated 2018 revenue for this startup is $80 million. 6. Sonder This company is like Airbnb but they want you to feel like you are staying in a hotel than a stranger's apartment. This startup that is transforming apartments into Sonder spaces which includes concierge and fresh towels. 7. Lemonade Lemonade is a startup insurer in the areas fo property and casualty. They use artificial intelligence and machine learning to better underwriting and pay claims quicker.   8. Poshmark Poshmark was created as an app to re-sell women's clothes now its has expanded into women's fashion as well as men's, kids, plus sizes, luxury and even cosmetics.  The app's users has also seen huge growth from the 1000 users it had in 2012 to the 40 million users it has today.   9. Flywire This startup helps universities, hospitals and businesses receive payments in foreign currencies making the process of money transfers cheaper and faster.   10. Braze This startup works behind the scenes after a person makes an order to power alerts that customers will receive on their phone as the order gets prepared. So far Domino's, Lyft, Yelp. Citi and Deliveroo are on board. Follow the Business Report on Instagram here BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE