The mother did not deny that she poisoned her two sons, aged 10 months and 3, but said it was because she also wanted to commit suicide. “I did not want to leave them behind because there was no one who could look after them the way I did,” she testified in the Gauteng High Court, Pretoria. Former police officer Thobile Mbatha, 29, of Tsakane near Springs, said she wanted to take her own life due to love problems. She said the father of her two children, also a police officer, two-timed her. He had an affair with another woman, and she was pregnant with his child. The woman phoned her and told her about the affair, but Mbatha said her husband promised that it was over. She believed her husband, but when she found a receipt in his trouser pocket regarding a home he and his lover had rented together, she snapped. After she took the rat poison, she fed some to 10-month-old Mapempeni Madoda, who later died in hospital. Her 3-year-old son Siyamthanda Junior Mbatha survived. Mbatha pleaded not guilty to a charge of murder and attempted murder. The defence claimed that there was a possibility that the 10-month-old boy could have survived the poisoning if the staff at a clinic acted sooner in assisting the child. It is claimed that the mother was forced to drive in her car to a nearby hospital with her comatose child. But a nurse and a doctor at the clinic denied this and said Mbatha never told them what was wrong with the children. Had they known they had been poisoned, they could have treated them accordingly. They said she simply took the children from the examination room and left the clinic. They said they were in a state of shock by her behaviour as they were planning on arranging an ambulance to transport them to hospital. The medical report said they were informed by a frantic and near hysterical family member that the youngest child had fallen out of bed. Nomonde Sikhulu told the court that her aunt, the accused, told her that the child fell out of bed. Acting Judge J Hattingh told her that it would be in her best interest to play open cards with the court. He also urged her lawyer to properly question her about what happened that day, as he did not “want to throw her to the wolves”. Mbatha cried bitterly as she told the court how the man who promised to love her and always be by her side cheated on her. The case is continuing.