The judgment was passed by the Gauteng High Court, Pretoria, in 2014 after the aggrieved operators took legal action against the department over a dispute related to the route. Taxi operators claimed they were elbowed out of the route they had used for more than 30 years. Association chairperson Paul Rantaung said problems started after the department allegedly issued an operating licence for the use of the same route to a taxi association called Simunye. He said the licence was issued after a decision was taken behind his back to merge Central Top Eleven and Burgersfort Long Taxi Association to form Simunye. He alleged that fraud was committed during the merger as he was not actively involved in the process. The association approached the court with a view to set aside the decision and to give its members the right to re-use the route. “We started operating in Pretoria in 1990. We wonder how it happened that they decided to cancel our route. There was no merger and the court agreed with us that there was no merger,” he said. Despite the fact that the ruling was made four years ago, the taxi operators had not been allowed back on the route. According to the judgment seen by the Pretoria News, the department appealed against the ruling, but it lost it with costs. In 2015, Rantaung’s association was kicked out of Bloed Street Taxi Rank, allegedly by the provincial traffic board. “Since then we have not been operating,” he said. Efforts by the association to write a letter to the MEC, Dr Ismail Vadi, failed to yield positive results. “We believe that the MEC wants the department to comply with the ruling but the problem lies with those advising him." He said since the ruling, there were 14 minibus taxis bought by operators affiliated to the association and that one was repossessed by the bank because there was no money to pay for it. Last week the association representatives went to the legislature in Johannesburg with the hope to meet the transport committee chairperson, but they were told he was not available.