This was the sentiment shared by emotional speakers at the 2018 School Safety Summit held at St George’s Hotel on Friday. Speakers held nothing back when they took to the podium to highlight the urgency with which South Africans - from all races and backgrounds - must unite against the culture of violence in schools. Minister of Basic Education Angie Motshekga listened to the impassioned speakers who reminded the audience of recent violent incidents in schools. Motshekga and representatives from the SAPS were told to act decisively and to protect pupils from sexual assault committed by people who were supposed to protect them. Pupils, teachers, unions and members of civil rights organisations, student governing bodies and student structures asked for the next summit to showcase what was being done to protect pupils from rape, hazardous pit toilets, peer pressure, substance abuse, teenage pregnancy, cyber-bullying, bad influences and overcrowded classrooms. Teachers said education was losing its reputation as a noble profession for people who were passionate about moulding the youth and preparing them to be future leaders. They said that viral videos that showed pupils fighting their teachers or behaving indecently in classrooms created a negative perception of the profession. Motshekga agreed with calls for practical action to tackle school violence. “Our schools are increasingly becoming a crime scene. There is indeed a correlation between high levels of criminality in our society and violence in our schools. "That’s why I always argue that if guns come from homes and the knives comes from communities and homes, the anger and ill-discipline the children bring to schools also comes from homes and communities.” Motshekga said South Africans should ask themselves what more could they do to raise morally outstanding children, and what society as a whole could do to enhance safety in schools. She said that although the Constitution required the government to provide basic education and a safe learning environment for pupils, the latter shared a responsibility to ensure that the schooling environment enabled their safe learning. “We subscribe to the notion that our core business is to provide an uplifting environment for learning and teaching to take place in our schools. Such an environment we believe must be stable, caring and supportive to all schools.” Dr Chandre Gould from the Institute for Security Studies used her time on the podium to beg Motshekga to take all challenges raised at the summit to Parliament and convince the country’s leaders to provide pupils with safe and enabling school environments. South African Democratic Teachers Union general secretary Mugwena Maluleke called on the government to help pupils deal with bullying, including cyber-bullying that was enabled by social media.