Mosola has approached the Labour Court in a bid to interdict council from tabling the report regarding his role in the multi-billion rand questionable tender awarded to the engineering company. The three-year contract was awarded to the company in November to assist in the roll-out of infrastructure projects valued at R12billion. In later emerged that the tender had been awarded without following procedures set out in the legislation and municipal policies. Council then approved that a preliminary investigation be conducted to determine the true state of the rot. It was commissioned to establish if allegations of misconduct levelled against Mosola were true. The probe was authorised by council on September 10 following allegations that the contract was awarded unlawfully. In court papers, Mosola proposed that the matter be heard in court at the same time as that scheduled for the council sitting. In his founding affidavit, Mosola contended that the investigation launched into him in the light of the GladAfrica scandal was unlawful and devoid of independence. Mosola said the investigation into allegations of financial misconduct was supposed to be conducted “in terms of the provisions of the Municipal Financial Management Act as read with the Financial Misconduct Regulation”. According to him, he was not against the investigation, but disputed its legality and the lawfulness of the process undertaken to execute it. Allegations of financial misconduct fell in the “definition of financial misconduct as defined in the Municipal Regulations on Financial Misconduct Procedures and Criminal Proceedings, published under the Municipal Finance Management Act 56 of 2003”, he argued. “As a result council was obliged to invoke the investigative mechanisms in the act as read with the Financial Misconduct Regulations,” he said. Mosola questioned why council failed to abide by the financial misconduct regulations, saying its conduct rendered investigation processes unlawful. In court papers, he stated that he stood to suffer irreparable harm if the court did not rule in his favour. He claimed that Executive Mayor Solly Msimanga had embarked on a campaign to malign him “with the hope of creating a groundswell of public opinion calling for my dismissal”. The court application listed council Speaker Katlego Mathebe, Msimanga and the City of Tshwane as respondents. Msimanga confirmed that Mosola had filed an urgent interdict seeking to prevent the report into alleged corruption being served in council. Msimanga said: “This is at odds with the public statements he made on August 15 when he stated categorically that ‘it is therefore my conclusion that the process that was followed in appointing Ariya Project Manager (GladAfrica) was in compliance with the legislative prescripts governing the City of Tshwane’s Supply Chain Management as well as the Municipal Finance Management Act”. The mayor said the City’s legal representatives would oppose the interdict. This would be done “in the interest of getting to the bottom of this matter and accounting to council and the ratepayers of the city who deserve to know the truth”. Msimanga questioned why Mosola would seek to interdict the report after committing to “submit all the necessary documentation surrounding this contract for public scrutiny”. “This report is one such document relating to the conclusion of this tender and should therefore be met with the same measure of transparency in the public interest," Msimanga said. "One has to wonder if this is a commitment to transparency or the mere appearance thereof."