The group, which refers to themselves as Black Monday, teamed up with the National Conservative Party and made their way from Moloto Road to Arcadia to ask for intervention from the American and Australian embassies in Pretoria. A petition, delivered to both embassies, calls for the South African government to act without delay to mobilise its security apparatus and its security forces to protect its citizens from farm murders, incitement to murder and acts of genocide. Similarly, they pleaded for pressure to be exerted on the government in order to ensure attacks on the farming community were regarded as priority crimes. The group also called for the establishment of a specialist investigation and prosecution unit to focus specifically on farm killings. This is something the organisers believed was being overlooked by the government and President Cyril Ramaphosa. They warned that failure by the government to intervene in the matter would force them to look into instituting legal steps based on criminal, civil and international laws against Ramaphosa, ministers in the safety and security cluster, the SAPS and the SA National Defence Force in their official and personal capacities. The national leadership of the movement said their decision to bring their plea to the embassies was as a result of parties such as the EFF, ANC and Black First, Land First inciting and calling for genocide in the country. They also wanted to stop farm murders and land expropriation, divorce the corrupt socialist state and claim self-determination. “This is unacceptable and we would like people to intervene. There isn’t enough intervention taking place,” said Edward Richardson. Valerie Byliefeldt, national chairperson of Black Monday, and secretary-general of the National Conservative Party, said even if the international communities ignored their plea, they would not stop running campaigns to highlight the dire state minority groups were suffering. “Ramaphosa went on live television and denied farm murders existed while there have been 62 killings in the past year. We want to bring this to the attention of the American government. At the main event, where we will be handing over our memorandum in Pretoria, we want to ask US President Donald Trump to intervene with the issue of farm murders in South Africa.” Byliefeldt said even though the media was not showing the international community the true state of affairs, they would take the message out on their own.