DURBAN – Multi Spectrum Property (MSP) is currently working on meeting the high demand for housing by constructing nine different developments across Gauteng. The nine developments includes two new developments within the suburb of Crystal Park in Benoni. These developments are Gem Grove and Campus View. MSP’s Director of Sales and Marketing, David Britz said, "Crystal Park is a well-established and popular family-friendly suburb with the added benefit of its own private school, Prestige College, for learners from Grade RRR to 9". Britz added that affordable homes does not mean that people will get sub-standard homes. MSP aims to uplift communities and the quality of our products testifies to this. The Gem Grove development offers eight different styles of home, ranging from two bedroom, one bathroom homes that are priced from R649,900. The three bedroom and one or two bathroom homes range from R709,900 and R749,900 respectively. Features of the home include open-plan living space, floor tiles, tiled splashback above kitchen cupboards, aluminium window frames, individually walled erfs with pedestrian gate. MSP also offer a range of optional extras available, from a garage to vanities, bedroom cupboards and built-in oven and hob. The Campus View development and will be developed in a single phase. This development has 251 Tuscan-style homes, with six different options to choose including two bedroom, one bathroom homes priced from R619,900 to three bedroom and one or two bathroom (main en suite) homes that cost R719,900 and R759,900 respectively. These homes feature beautiful finishes and tiled floors throughout, showers, solar geyser, aluminium window frames, splashback tiling, double kitchen sink and washing machine connection, burglar proofing and paved outside patios. Both Campus View and Gem Grove are 20 kilometres away from entertainment centres like Carnival City Casino and Entertainment World. Sporting facilities include Daveyton Racetrack, Benoni Country Club, Zakhele Mhlambo Sports Field and the Benoni Lake, Daveyton and Ebotsi Golf Clubs. "These properties are perfect for families starting out or those which are expanding and need to go larger – and are also great options for those buying to live in them or investors looking to rent them out. Our rental arm can assist with this," said Britz. The other Gauteng locations for the developments include Pretoria West, Midvaal, Polokwane and Mamelodi. Follow the Business Report on Instagram here BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE