Pretoria - Black Monday organisers are pleading for help from the international community to put pressure on the government to act against the "white genocide” taking place in the country. The group which refers to themselves as Black Monday alongside the National Conservative Party (NCP) made their way from Moloto road all the way to Arcadia to ask for intervention from the American and Australian embassies in Pretoria. The petition delivered to both embassies calls for the South African government to act without delay to mobilise its security apparatus and its security forces to protect its citizens from farm murders. Especially those of minority ethnic groups from murder, incitement to murder and acts of genocide. Similarly they pleaded for pressure to be exerted on the government in order to ensure attacks on the farming community were regarded as '"priority crimes." To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video  With the establishment of a specialist investigation and prosecution unit to focus specifically on farm killings. Something the organisers believed was being overlooked by the government and president Cyril Ramaphosa. Failure by the government to intervene in the matter the NCP, vowed they would look into instituting legal steps based on criminal, civil and international law against Ramaphosa, ministers in the safety and security cluster, the high command of the SAPS and the National Defence Force in their official and personal capacities. The National leadership of the movement said their decision to bring their plea to the embassies was as a result of parties such as the EFF, ANC, BLF inciting and calling for genocide in the country. But also to stop farm murders and land expropriation, divorce the corrupt socialist state and claim self-determination. “This is unacceptable and we would like people to intervene. There isn’t enough intervention taking place,” said Edward Richardson. Valerie Byliefeldt, National Chairperson of The Black Monday movement South Africa and Secretary-General of NCP Limpopo sector, said even if the international communities ignored their plea they would not stop running campaigns to highlight the dire state minority groups were suffering.