DURBAN - Pam Golding Properties has announced a strategic joint venture partnership with BidX1 for a digital auction platform that will be launched next month. BidX1 is a digital property company whose online auction platform is changing the property transaction process across the UK and Ireland. BidX1 has created an innovative, transparent and secure digital auction platform that allows users the convenience and immediacy of buying and selling property online from anywhere in the world, on any device. The auction company has raised over €1.3billion through the sale of more than 8 000 assets as well as €750million through traditional auctions and €550million via their bespoke digital platform – BidX1 is now the second largest auction house in Britain and Ireland. The digital platform has transformed the property auction sales process, providing a foundation of convenience, security and efficiency that benefits both buyer and seller. The online auction platform has proven successful across a full range of property including city centre apartments and commercial investment portfolios. This is a landmark partnership, with the partnership between Pam Golding Properties and BidX1 to bring greater innovation and transparency to the auction property transaction process in South Africa, Pam Golding wants to offer clients and customers a cutting-edge digital platform that is developed by property experts. Andrew Golding, chief executive of the Pam Golding Property group said, "In line with our vision to provide our clients with a diverse range of property services which more effectively and efficiently enable and facilitate successful property transactions, we are excited to be partnering with BidX1". He added that it will bring a new aspect to the South African auction property market and provide Pam Golding agents and sellers and buyers with more opportunities in this space. Stephen McCarthy, founder & chief executive at BidX1 said, "Our focus is on using technology to enhance the experience of buying and selling property, making us a complementary partner for property agents and auction businesses who want to expand their market reach via our advanced digital platform for their clients and customers". "We have added this technological sales channel as we wanted to enter into the auction environment, and in so doing bolster our property services proposition to clients," Golding concluded. Follow the Business Report on Instagram here BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE