However, the City has said there was no hope that the programme would resume, and that the beneficiaries had been given three attempts to complete it at the time. Jan Rallele, 28, of Soshanguve and Atteridgeville resident Pitso Malele, 30, said they worked hard to prove their worth and improve their chances of getting jobs with the City. Malele said that in 2013 they were encouraged to be part of the firefighters programme under the indigent programme, which focused on improving the lives of the poor in the city. The programme included three months of firefighting and skills training, with a promise of permanent employment after completion. A few months into the course, the training was halted when a severe hailstorm damaged most houses in the province, including Pretoria. Rallele said they were urged to assist families whose houses were damaged. “They said helping to fix the roofing was a chance to prove how badly we wanted to be employed by the City. We were very hopeful that we would get employment, so we did everything we could to prove ourselves,” he said. “We climbed those asbestos-roofed houses. We assisted the permanent staff in fixing the roofs. The same year, Nelson Mandela died and we were asked to assist as first-aid officers during his State funeral. “We did all this with the hope of getting employment, but five years later, we are still without work and we have not completed our course.” The two said they tried numerous times to speak to relevant stakeholders to enquire about the course. Rallele said: “They sold us dreams; they told us we would be employed and we were happy that we were finally going to bring change in our families. “We want the City to resume the course so that we can have the qualifications, wear that uniform and get employment as promised.” They threatened to take legal action against for City for what they described as a breach of agreement. Tshwane Emergency Services spokesperson Johan Pieterse said the 2013 programme had been concluded. He said following enquiries from some of the beneficiaries in 2017, the department engaged with them and explained that it was a once-off skills development programme. Although the programme was once-off, he said, the trainees were given three opportunities to participate in reassessments and evaluations. Those who were unsuccessful after three attempts were considered not competent enough. “The programme aimed to equip identified recipients with basic Firefighter 1 and Hazardous Material Awareness certification. “This would have placed successful recipients who passed this level of certification with the opportunity of applying for advertised firefighter positions in the City, subject to compliance with relevant policies,” Pieterse said. He emphasised that the was no plan to reinstate the programme.