Staff feed and care for the animals as prospective pet owners wander around looking for the perfect pet. There is even a play area for children and a lapa which is let out, and this Saturday, October 6, it will host a Superheroes dress-up party. Founder Cilla Trexler is hard at work, as usual, answering the phone, arranging home visits for people who want to adopt a cat or dog, being available here, there and everywhere. The focus of all this activity are the 600 rescue dogs and 350 cats residing at the facility. This week there is a special focus on shelter animals at Wollies and all the other animal shelters in Pretoria and around the country because it is World Animal Week, with tomorrow, October 4, the feast day of the patron saint of animals, St Francis of Assisi. World Animal Week is a recognised calendar event that unites the world in its celebration of animals and helps raise the standard of animal welfare.Wollies is appealing to members of the public to think about adopting a rescue animal this week. Wollies itself comes from humble beginnings. The initial purpose was to sterilise as many animals as possible, way back in 2003 when it all started. However, it did not end there. As Trexler says: “We became more and more involved. Helping abandoned, neglected and abused animals and, before we knew it, we had evolved into a full-scale operation, which is known today as Wollies Animal Shelter.” Rescuing animals is not for sissies. It is an unending task, and the logistics are formidable. Tons of food are eaten every month, and it takes a huge amount of money to run the facility. The people who work there are mostly volunteers, in it for the love of animals, and they give unstintingly of their energy and time. About 50 animals are adopted every month, but about 80 come in, so the numbers are continually growing and the centre expanding. Wollies is registered as a non-profit, pro-life organisation. It relies completely on donations. “Every cat and dog stays with us until they find their forever homes. Life is what we offer them, and we will never take these rights away. We strongly believe that if people are educated on the benefits of sterilisation and if these costs were more affordable, then there will be fewer abandoned, abused and homeless animals,” she says. “Often the animals that come to us have suffered incredible cruelty, their spirits have been broken, and they are shut out from the world. At times they will cower in fear, their bodies trembling. We do whatever it takes to give these animals back their dignity,” she said. “Our initiative does not end at the shelter. We also assist the community in the area, wherever possible, to take their sick animals to the vet and supply them with food. “This is by no means an easy feat, but as we enter the shelter today, the worries of their next meal are washed away as we are excitedly greeted by wagging tails and purring bodies. This is when we know that the tears, the struggles, the battles and disappointment were all worth it at the end of the day!” To find out more, go to www.wollies.org or call 083 339 1692