A thunderstorm with strong winds and hail swept through Tshwane. The City of Tshwane emergency services checked roads for flooding and cleared fallen branches. They worked to restore power to areas affected by the storm. Worst affected were the northern and western areas, including Hammanskraal, Temba, Pretoria West and Pretoria North. The Apies River was in full flood and traffic was directed away from the low-water bridges and subways, especially the subway in Rachel de Beer Street in Pretoria North. Low water bridges were also affected in the Centurion area as the Hennops River was in flood. The City received a report of two bodies in the Apies River near Capital Park. However, a search of the bank revealed nothing and the river was too swollen for it to be safe for diving teams to enter the water, Tshwane Emergency Services spokesperson Johan Pieterse said. A community member reported yesterday morning that he saw the two bodies. The Emergency Services search-and-rescue unit and SAPS diving unit responded and started searching on the riverbanks for any person or bodies. The river is still flooded. The South African Weather Service issued a warning of more heavy rains with the possibility of hail but by yesterday afternoon it was cool and dry. Today is expected to be sunny and warmer. In Plastic View, residents had barely got back on their feet after a fire started by a paraffin stove last Saturday when the heavens opened and drenched them. The storm ripped plastic sheeting from the shacks and left bedding and clothing soaked. Remember Bebe said yesterday he had rushed his wife and daughter to a friend’s home when his new shack was damaged in the storm. “We received plastic sheeting from donors, but it was too thin to resist heavy rain. "The sheeting was torn apart or blew off the roof.” He said that while they appreciated the donations after the fire, corrugated iron and wood were best suited for this weather. Lethola Rafubi lost everything in the fire and said the rain added salt to the wound. “This rain really set us back because those blankets that were donated to us are wet. "Most people only received one blanket and now we don’t know what we’ll use since it is cold,” he said. Mmakatlgo Mohlouoa watched the rain set her spaza shop back even further following the blaze that engulfed her stock just a week before. She said she had watched helplessly when the rain soaked bread and toilet tissue. “It’s been tough lately. If it’s not fire, it’s rain, and if it’s not rain it is criminals,” she said. “People will sleep on the wet ground because they don’t have a choice,” she added. Plastic View 1 committee chairperson Benjamin Sithole urged donors to speak to leaders before bringing items to the area to avoid fights between the residents in need of help.