Residents, who refused to be named for fear of victimisation, said they were worried that the shacks would negatively affect their property values. Shack dwellers moved to their area last year after they allegedly bought plots for R7000 each, they said. They claimed they were being threatened by the illegal land invaders whenever they complained about the building of shacks on the land, which didn’t belong to them. The shacks dwellers have been accused of illegally connecting electricity and water from sources meant to supply formal houses. “We experience power outages now and then because of illegal connections,” an angry resident said. There had been several meetings with authorities to solve the impasse, but that never worked, he said. Another home owner said he was once pelted with stones after he attempted to remove electric cables used by shack dwellers to illegally connect from formal houses. “We have signed a petition that was submitted to authorities. We were trying to avoid physical confrontation,” he said. Ward 68 councillor Johanna Ngobeni said she knew about the situation, describing it as frustrating. “People living in bond houses have a right to complain because their houses lose value for being next to shacks.” Ngobeni said the national government previously intervened by dispatching the Red Ants security to remove people from the land “but after they left there were no security guards to keep those wanting to invade the land at bay”. Ngobeni said she had had meetings with informal dwellers, telling them it was wrong to build shacks there. “What is more frustrating is that people there even illegally connected electricity,” she said. Many residents complained about their unacceptably high utility bills, apportioning blames to those who illegally connected water and electricity from them. “These people are not paying for water and electricity they use. That means someone is footing their bills because nothing is for free,” an angry resident said. While there was tension between the two communities yesterday, some homeowners said it wasn't their intention to drive away their neighbours.