This emerged yesterday during the second day of the public hearings by a Competitions Commission panel probing data service. Vodacom chief executive Shameel Joosub told the commission the company’s data became cheaper as the customer bought more and the company offered a variety of bundles to suit the poor population. Joosub said attempts to regulate a competitive market would result in less flexibility for competition. MTN SA chief executive Godfrey Motsa said a flat rate would only end up benefiting citizens who were well off. He said in comparison to other African countries, it was their belief South Africa was leading in terms of affordability based on average income. Vodacom and MTN SA also submitted that capacity constraints and investment considerations hampered the feasibility of lowered data costs. Cell C also made a submission yesterday. Telkom chief executive Sipho Maseko said the mobile communication sector did not need more entrants or retail price regulation. Instead, it should allow smaller operators to compete on an equal footing with “bigger players” whom, for years, benefited from structural advantages. Maseko said the commission ought to consider ensuring there was effective competition that would be sustainable in the long run, “don’t make the strong stronger and cause the weak to die out”. Maseko said the market was under the duopoly of Vodacom and MTN SA. He said even though Telkom was offering a gig of data for far less than the other networks at R99, it had not significantly swayed customers to migrate to the network. Independent institutions submitted that exorbitant data costs affected the poorest of the poor the most. Poor South Africans forked out 10 to 30 times more for data, while their richer counterparts fared much better, they said. Should there not be a gradual decline in data costs, according to the institutions, the service providers would be denying people the right to gain access to information. The last day of the inquiry is today.