He spoke at the opening of a three-day Electricity Conference at the CSIR hosted by the Association of Municipal Electricity Utilities of Southern Africa, under the theme “The impact of the energy revolution on power utilities in Africa”. The association is comprised of municipal electricity distributors, parastatals, academics and other stakeholders with an interest in the energy sector in Southern Africa. More than 800 delegates have gathered to deliberate on challenges faced by municipalities, ranging from non-payment of services to vandalism of electricity infrastructure. Moss said: “The City is faced with cable theft and vandalism to electricity infrastructure daily. "The City of Tshwane alone, between July 2017 and July 2018, reported 2600 incidences of cable theft, which cost us in the excess of R200million in replacing cables.” Challenges of cable theft, Moss said, were common in all the three Gauteng metropolitan cities - Tshwane, Joburg and Ekurhuleni. “We are working together to try to lobby the relevant national structures on certain issues that we believe we need assistance with - such as copper trading (that need) to be regulated,” he told the delegates. Municipalities also faced challenges from the sale of electricity. Moss said: “The introduction of embedded power generation has resulted in a decline of electricity sales in our cities. We need to come up with solutions on how we can align our business models with embedded generation (of electricity).” Speakers at the conference highlighted that most people no longer purchased electricity from the municipality because they had opted to generate their own power. Moss said the City supported new initiatives for people to generate their own energy. “We want to encourage embedded power generation and hopefully in the next month we will be bringing our new energy mixed strategy to council for approval. That will include regulations in terms of major generation and small-scale embedded generation.” He lamented that illegal connections were rife all over the country, resulting in power losses. “In Tshwane alone our losses are over R600m a year.” Moss also talked about the need to make energy affordable to people, saying the 20% power increase from Eskom didn’t help. Increases in energy consumption raised serious concerns of a limited supply of energy. The Minister of Co-operative Governance and Traditional Affairs, Dr Zweli Mkhize, agreed the cost of generating electricity needed to be reduced. There were other forms of energy provided by renewable energy that ought to be considered. He cited solar power units, which were erected within the borders of municipalities, saying they ought to be managed properly to avoid compromising the national energy grid. “Businesses and households are installing solar on their rooftops and this will no doubt have a negative impact on municipal revenue generation. Municipalities will need to find a role to play in this new development and ensure that installation is in line with certain standards.” The conference continues today.