The university announced on Friday that academic activities at the Soshanguve North and South campuses would resume today. Management of the university had suspended academic activities at both campuses after students protested following the fatal shooting of student Katlego Monareng in August, allegedly at the hands of police. The third-year student was killed during demonstrations that followed allegations that the SRC election at the Soshanguve North campus had been rigged. Both the killing and election rigging allegations are under investigation. Since Monareng's death, there had not been peace at the two campuses. Students protested, demanding justice for their comrade. Second-year public relations student Phumelele Makonyana said she was relieved when she saw a message announcing that classes would resume today. “I’m glad we are finally going back to school; we are far behind with our studies. “The first week of sitting at home was fun, but as time went by it became frustrating,” she said. Makonyana said as much as it was sad that they had lost one of their own, they had to be realistic about things and go back to school to graduate. Lindokuhle Ndlandla shared the same sentiments and said it was about time they went back to classes. However, the first-year education student said she was not sure there would be enough time for them to catch up before they write their final exams. However, the university spokesperson Willa de Ruyter said faculties would arrange catch-up programmes and tests with students. De Ruyter said violent protest action and damage to property that posed a serious risk to the safety of students and staff at both campuses had left the university no choice but to suspend activities in order to restore normality. Students were allowed to return to residences from yesterday in order to prepare for the resumption of normal activities. “A security contingency plan was implemented which will require students to use only designated entrances to the campuses. “ All students will be vetted before they can access the campus and only registered students will be allowed on to campus. "Students will have to show a valid South African ID, student card and proof of registration for the 2018 academic year,” she said. Final examinations at other campuses - except Soshanguve North and South campuses - will commence on November 12. Detailed information about exams for Soshanguve would be communicated upon their return to classes, De Ruyter said.