Pretoria -  Branded the world’s first African premium kitchen appliances, Ziyanda’s products have hit social media by storm. However, Twitter users feel they are overpriced for the ordinary person wanting to support black business. Many lamented the fact that they were not the target market due to their exorbitant prices, which ranged from prices like R5 500 for a kettle and R6 500 for a toaster. You will need to fork out R13 000 for a mixer. While others have come out to defend entrepreneur Zonke Zama Ndaba for the beautiful appliances, others stated that they clearly weren’t the intended customers and therefore would not be showing their appreciation. Ndaba said the company producing the elegant pieces would be launched in 2019. He said the concept of the product design was inspired by the authentic icon that was African culture. “Ziyanda Appliances was born out of the need to add to the many brands that showcase the fact that South Africans can also create beautiful high-end luxury products. “Releasing the concept images was me taking my fellow South Africans into my confidence in order to see what I am working on. This could hopefully be an addition to the beauty that continues to emerge from our amazing country.” @tido_magnifcent said: “I’m all for black business but #Ziyandaappliances must wait... we all want to run businesses that will compete with international brands, but that’s being short-sighted to overprice products.” Prices were not the only aspect Twitter had qualms with; but the fact that some of the appliances would require wifi to use. The blogger pointed out if there was no network, it would mean no tea or coffee, for instance. The supplier’s Instagram page stated that the kettle used an App (Android and & IOS) enabled with smartphone via wi-fi. The feature allows users to operate the products via their smartphone from within wi-fi range. While the brand received a thumbs up for giving hope to back owned businesses, social media still had a problem. @Bongsz_Ngubo said: “It’s unfortunate that I am not their target market. I would really love to support black business.” Some turned on the humour, saying the prices better be worth extraordinary functions. @miss_andisa wrote: “Listen, I’d probably buy these just to stare at them all day, and continue using my appliances from Shoprite. All of a sudden it makes sense why black mothers have stuff no one is allowed to touch.” @MondliMabaso said if people couldn’t  afford the brand, it didn’t give them the right to criticise the business model or the price. Other said the tea boiled in the kettle had no right to cool down, and others said they were worried by the fact that if they tried to toast ordinary bread in the toaster it would give an error message, which would continue by saying the bread was not recognised. @RaeesaK asked: “+R13 000 for this? This mixer better mix my blessings from God and bake me a cake pooped by Unicorns. @QueTheAfrikan tweeted: “Support black business? It seems that black business forgets that we are poor.” 