The mortar bomb travelled about 2km from the school and struck the roof of Felicia Klopper’s home. It then hit her on the head and rendered her unconscious. She suffered severe head injuries as a result. Klopper, 20, instituted the claim in the Gauteng High Court in Pretoria against the SANDF, as well as against the commanders of the SA Infantry Formation and the Witwatersrand Rifles Regiment. She said all these parties were negligent in not ensuring that the mortar was safe when it was on display at Die Arend Primary School in Brakpan. Klopper said her problems started on September 27, 2014 when the school hosted a food, music and exhibition festival, known as the Pannefees. She was in matric at the time and living with her parents. The SANDF and the various regiments were exhibitors at the festival, where they hosted a display that included weapons and armaments. At about 11am, an explosion was heard at the display stand after an unidentified member of the force somehow caused the mortar to be discharged. Klopper was in her bedroom when the object suddenly came through the roof and hit her on the head. After it hit her head and shoulder, it came to a rest on the bedroom floor. It was later collected from her home by the SAPS forensic and bomb disposal unit. She said, in court papers, the impact of the mortar was so severe that she suffered a depressed skull fracture and other head injuries. She was taken to hospital, where she remained for about a week. Klopper said her injuries were the result of negligence on the part of the SANDF and regiment members. She claimed they didn’t have written permission from the SA Infantry Formation and logistics chief to display the weapons at the festival. They also failed to carry out safety precautions relating to the handling and transport of the weapons and ammunition on display. Klopper claims they should have made certain the weapons could not explode before transporting them to a public area. Her lawyer said in a letter that they were told by the SAPS that the projectile actually went off when members of the Witwatersrand Rifle Regiment were packing up. The SANDF conducted an internal investigation and they did an inventory check after the display. It was then discovered that one mortar projectile was not booked back in. Klopper’s mother said she walked into her daughter’s bedroom after hearing the explosion and found her having a seizure on the bed, with her head in a pool of blood. The daughter then went into anaphylactic shock as a result of the skull fracture. She was rushed to hospital, where doctors said it was a miracle that she had survived the force of the mortar. It was further said in court papers that the SANDF had at first denied that they had fired the projectile. It was only after an investigation that they admitted to this. The lawyer said the National Prosecuting Authority had, to date, done nothing to take the matter further. No date has been set for the damages trial.