Political differences are set aside and a peace pipe smoked outside the Pretoria Magistrate's Court this morning as civic organisations and political parties demand justice for the 7-year-old girl raped in a Dros restaurant toilet last week. The 20-year-old accused is making his second appearance at the court since being arrested two weeks ago. It is alleged the suspect followed the little girl from the play area to the toilets where he raped her. The girl's mother allegedly caught him in the act after she went looking for her child. The #NotInMyNameSA campaign, #TheTotalShutDown, EFF, DA, ANC, Bikers Against Child Abuse, Nelson Mandela Children's Foundation and BLF have literally put Francis Baard Street in the city centre at a standstill as they chant and dance in support of the victim and her family. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  The organisations have also united under one voice to say the alleged rapist must not be granted bail. The man, who can't by law be named until he pleads, faces charges of rape, possession of drugs, assault with intent to do bodily harm and intimidation. Small children holding placards with “no bail” written on them have also joined in the picket outside the court. Streets around the court are cordoned off as a result of the expected protests and there is heavy police presence. Department of Community Safety head Yoliswa Makhasi, Tshwane Mayor and DA Gauteng Premier candidate Solly Msimanga as well as the ANCYC’s Lesego Makhubela also came out in support of the victim. Addressing the media earlier, Msimanga said he had met with some of the family members of the victim. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  “It was very heart breaking. You have a little child that is innocent who doesn't know anything about what is happening. "As things stand, the family has been taking it very very hard and we are hoping we will be able to assist where we can,” he said. #NotInMyNameSA Secretary-general Themba Masango said the accused did not deserve to see the light of day ever again. “Today he is not coming out of here. We want justice and we want it now. "He does not deserve to see the light of day again. "We want harsh sentences for rapists and South Africa must implement the law with volume and speed,” he said.