This was the plea by the DA’s Peter Themba, who was on Saturday announced as one of the Ward 9 councillor candidates for by-elections on October 18 in Winterveldt. The seat became vacant after ANC councillor Sipho Maselane was expelled from the party. He was booted out after being convicted on four counts of rape and four counts of robbery with aggravated circumstances in July. He was sentenced to life in prison, including 53 years’ imprisonment, by the Ga-Rankuwa Magistrate’s Court. Themba said the DA was ready to dethrone the ANC, which had been running the ward for years. “For more than 24 years the ANC failed to bring about changes in the ward. Most people here don't have electricity and proper sanitation. We are here to give people hope,” he said. He said the lack of basic services in the ward was testimony that there had been no political will to improve the lives of people in the area. Themba said the majority of residents in the township were forced to relocate to Soshanguve, where they were afforded better services. “The biggest problem here is that previous councillors were not willing to listen to the people.” The ANC in Tshwane, on the other hand, expressed confidence that it would retain the ward, given that it scored well during the 2016 municipal polls. Party leader Dr Kgosi Maepa said: “Of course we are going to retain the ward. You must remember that we bagged 94% of the votes the last time in this ward.” He said the ANC would continue to demonstrate its huge support in townships by easily walking away with a victory again. “The DA got far less in all the by-elections we have had so far in the townships,” he added. Maepa said party candidate Matshidiso Baloyi was nominated during the branch general meeting through a democratic process. “We followed a democratic process, unlike the DA and the EFF, that just appoint their candidates,” he said. EFF regional leader Moaferika Mabogoana said: “We are planning to take over the ward. We are going to do everything possible to make sure we win. We must win the first ward in Tshwane to demonstrate to people how the EFF can govern and deliver better services.”