Audiences flocked to theatres to witness the random murder and mayhem a masked man brought to a small suburban town, reminding them that picket fences cannot protect us from the unjust, unknown or uncertainty that awaits us all in life and death. The film offers no justice for the victims in the end, no rebalancing of good and evil. Why, then, would anyone want to spend time and money to watch such macabre scary scenes? I’ve spent the past 10 years investigating just this question, finding the typical answer, “Because I like it! It’s fun!” incredible. I’ve long been convinced there’s more to it than the “natural high” or adrenalin rush - and indeed, a multitude of chemicals that ensure your body is fuelled and ready to respond. This “fight or flight” response to threat has helped keep humans alive for millennia. But that still doesn’t explain why people would want to intentionally scare themselves. As a sociologist, I’ve kept asking “But, why?” After two years collecting data in a haunted attraction with my colleague Greg Siegle, a cognitive neuroscientist at the University of Pittsburgh, we’ve found the gains from thrills and chills can go further than the natural high. To capture in real time what makes fear fun, what motivates people to pay to be scared out of their skin and what they experience we needed to gather data . This meant setting up a mobile lab in the basement of an extreme haunted attraction outside Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. This adults-only extreme attraction went beyond the typical startling lights and sounds and animated characters found in a family-friendly haunted house. Over the course of about 35 minutes, visitors experienced a series of intense scenarios - unsettling characters, special effects, they were touched by the actors, restrained and exposed to electricity. It was not for the faint of heart. For our study, we recruited 262 guests. Before they entered, each completed a survey about their expectations and feelings. We had them answer questions again about how they were feeling once they had gone through the attraction. We also used mobile EEG technology to compare 100 participants’ brainwave activity as they sat through 15 minutes of cognitive and emotional tasks before and after the attraction. Guests reported significantly higher mood and felt less anxious and tired directly after their haunted trip. The more terrifying the better: feeling happy afterwards was related to rating the experience as highly intense and scary. This set of volunteers also reported feeling that they’d challenged their personal fears and learnt about themselves. Analysis of the EEG data revealed widespread decreases in brain reactivity before and after among those whose mood improved. In other words, highly intense and scary activities - at least in a controlled environment - may “shut down” the brain to an extent - associated with feeling better. Studies of those who practise mindfulness meditation have made a similar observation. Together our findings suggest that going through an extreme haunted attraction provides gains similar to running a 5km race or tackling a difficult climbing wall. There’s a sense of uncertainty, physical exertion, a challenge to push yourself - and eventually achievement when it’s over. Fun-scary experiences could serve as an in-the-moment recalibration of what registers as stressful and even provide a kind of confidence boost. After watching a scary movie or going through a haunted attraction, maybe everything else seems like no big deal in comparison. You rationally understand that the actors in a haunted house aren’t real, but when you suspend your disbelief and allow yourself to become immersed in the experience, the fear can feel real, as does the satisfaction and sense of accomplishment afterwards. Movies like Halloween allow people to tackle the big, existential fears, like why bad things happen without reason, through the protective frame of entertainment. Choosing to do fun, scary activities may also serve as a way to practise being scared, building greater self-knowledge and resilience. It’s an opportunity to engage with fear on your own terms, in environments where you can push your boundaries safely. Because you’re not in real danger and thus not occupied with survival you can choose to observe your reactions, gaining greater insight into yourself. There are countless differences in the nature, content, intensity and quality of haunted attractions, horror movies and scary entertainment, but they all share a few critical components. First, you have to make the choice to engage. And when you engage in activities with other people,your own emotional experience is intensified. Doing intense, exciting and thrilling things together can make them more fun and help create social bonds. Emotions can be contagious, so when you see your friend scream and laugh, you may feel compelled to do the same. No matter the potential benefits, horror movies and scary entertainment are not for everyone. While the fight-or-flight response is universal, there are important differences between individuals - genetic expressions, environment and personal history - that help explain why some loathe and others love thrills and chills. Regardless of your taste (or distaste) for all things horror- or thrill-related, an adventurous and curious mindset can benefit everyone. After all, we’re the descendants of adventurous and curious forebears who explored the new and novel, but were also quick and smart enough to run from or fight danger. This Halloween, maybe challenge yourself to at least one fun scary experience and prepare to unleash your inner superhero. - The Conversation (www.conversation.com) Kerr is adjunct professor of sociology, University of Pittsburgh