THE University of Pretoria (Tuks) has decided to rename some of its student residences with African names as part of its broader transformation project. In this regard, eight female and male residences will be renamed. University spokesperson Rikus Delport said that in September last year they embarked on a process of reviewing residence names as part of the transformation project. The aim was to provide for a more multilingual, multicultural and inclusive living environment for students. In March this year, residence house committees were requested to hold discussions and make suggestions regarding possible alternative names. Each residence was requested to submit at least three proposed names. In view of the unique environment in each residence, every residence was responsible for determining its own processes. Residences used house meetings, transformation committee discussions, surveys, e-voting and consultation with alumni. The processes were iterative, consultative and inclusive. The vice-principal for residence affairs and accommodation Professor Themba Mosia also discussed the matter with the SRC and the Residence Advisory Board. “Once feedback had been received, Mosia consolidated the proposals and motivations in a single submission to the executive management of the university for consideration,” he said. Mosia also requested that the matter be presented to the university council before decisions were communicated first to each individual residence and then to the broader university community. Accordingly, on September 18, the council took note of the processes and outcome. “Each residence head has been informed of the outcome of the process and will be responsible for the implementation of the decisions at the residence level in consultation with the department of residence affairs and accommodation as well as the respective residence house committees,” said Delport. The name changes will be phased in over time. The proposed changes have been received positively by students. Changes in respect of women’s residence names are as follows: Curlitzia becomes Curelitzia Erika becomes Erica Inca becomes Ikageng Jasmyn becomes House Khutso Katjiepiering becomes Azalea Klaradyn becomes House Nala Lilium becomes Hayani Magrietjie becomes House Mags  Changes in respect of men’s residence names are as follows: Boekenhout becomes House TAU Kiaat becomes Tirisano Kollege becomes College Maroela becomes Morula Legae Mopanie becomes Mopane Olienhout becomes Tuks Ekhaya Olympus becomes House Ukuthula Taaibos becomes The Tower  The following mixed residence names will change: Onderstepoort becomes OP Village Protea becomes Protea Mbalenhle Tuks Naledi becomes Khanyisa Naledi  The following residence names will remain unchanged: Asterhof Madelief Nerina Zinnia Xayata Jakaranda Hippokrates Tuksdorp Tuks Bophelong Tuks Village