Yesterday employees, together with the members of #NotInMyName, were scheduled to picket outside DLCA offices in Erasmuskloof, but were stopped in their tracks by the courts. They were served with an interdict which read: “ picketing and demonstrating within 5km of the applicant’s premises is prohibited.” Speaking outside the North Gauteng High Court, #NotInMyName secretary-general Themba Masango said they were going to get their own legal representative to look into the matter. “We are not backing down. We are going to get our lawyers to look into the court interdict, which we suspect has loopholes.” The labour dispute between DLCA employees and the Department of Transport has led to a nationwide backlog in the issuing of driving licence cards, with some motorists having to wait up to two months. The department has, however, advised all those waiting for their new driving licences to get a temporary licence. The backlog - estimated by the workers to be in the millions by now - is the result of the industrial action that started three months ago at the DLCA in Pretoria, who are the only national government department responsible for the printing of all driving licence cards for both provincial and municipal licensing centres. The issuing of the licences would usually take three to six weeks, but since the strike at DLCA in July, some people have waited for more than two months. The DLCA team produces about 450000 licence cards a month. Workers said that when the Transport Department took over their previous employer, Prodiba, in 2015, they had worked for the company since 1998, and were then transferred to the department’s DLCA. They accused the company's chief executive Collins Letsoalo of “ruling with an iron fist”, saying they constantly felt threatened as Letsoalo refused to negotiate a decent contract. One worker said they were the only ones in the country who could manufacture and produce licences. He added that they were awaiting an arbitration date from the bargaining council, but to no avail. When he spoke about the impasse between workers and the department and the delay in the issuing of licence cards last month, Transport Minister Blade Nzimande said it was critical to note that the DLCA was currently undergoing routine maintenance of its machinery and systems. He assured motorists that they would receive their licences despite the impasse. He added that contingency plans had been put in place to recover the turn-around time and deliver the cards as per prevailing standards.