Minister of Basic Education, Angie Motshekga, is leading a Schools Safety Summit attended by numerous pupils and various education stakeholders at the St George Hotel in Irene. The summit brought together the various stakeholders to find a workable solution to safety issues faced by schools. The guests will discuss new and innovating ways to implement and maintain safety in South African schools and create a culture of schools that are safe for all pupils and teachers. Motshekga’s department acknowledged violent incidents taking place in schools and planned to use the summit to find practical solutions to strengthen efforts to improve schools safety. The minister said violent crime is a big problem in South Africa and that was reflected in the latest crimes statistics released by the South African Police Services (SAPS) this year. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  She said a lot of people were murdered and violently injured in society and since pupils are a mirror of their society, some of the violence rubbed off on them and  took place in schools. Motshekga said she feared that school violence would discourage the youth from choosing education as a career, something the country could not afford. She said teachers were crucial to the development and betterment of every country’s youth because they are the future of every nation. The summit prioritised summarising and analysing provincial trends, the role of School Governing Bodies (SGBs) in promoting and championing safety at schools. This included strengthening programmes like “Adopt a Cop” - a safety project championed by the department at the SAPS. Numerous pupils, union representatives, teachers, SGB members, development partners, labour, faith-based organisations and academia are engaging about various creative ways to enhance safety. Deputy Minister of Basic Education, Enver Surty's, previous annual summit focused on numerous concerning issues that threatened school safety, such as drug use and trading within schools.