The system is for people applying for driving card licences, professional driving permits and learner's licences. The first visit will be at Bronkhorstspruit Licence Centre and follows the announcement that from October, there would be no more walk-ins at all the driving licence testing centres in the metro. This is due to the introduction of an online booking system. While in Bronkhorstspruit, the MMC will also launch a mobile clinic in partnership with the Gauteng Health Department, Tshwane Taxi Industry and the Adelaide Tambo School of Nursing Sciences at the Tshwane University of Technology. The rolling out of these clinics is to afford taxi drivers and queue marshals an opportunity to have voluntary medical check-ups and counselling, as most of them do not have time to go to clinics owing to the nature of their operation. These services will also be offered to other taxi rank users such as passengers, taxi owners, and informal traders at the ranks. Meanwhile, residents have mixed feelings regarding the online system; some gave it the green light, while others said they did not know how to use it. Harold Noumodje said he used the online system to renew his driving licence and found it rather interesting. Noumodje said he was happy that he did not have to wake up at the crack of dawn to get in the queue. “Things are so much easier once you’ve booked online. You know you arrive and they can help you out quickly.” Cebo Majola, who was there to write her learner’s licence test, said she preferred the online system. “I think it’s much better, but I wish they would enable the system to take payments online as well so we don’t have to come here to pay.” Anele Majola said she wasn’t happy that the bookings could only be made on Thursdays; she had to wait till noon to get space. “Online is tough because on the day they do bookings, it’s almost like everyone is waiting to get a place. I hope they could look into that.” Staff members said the new system had its fair share of issues. Some customers attacked them when they got frustrated with it. Meanwhile, Transport Minister Dr Blade Nzimande is officially launching the 13th anniversary of the October Transport Month Campaign in Benoni under the theme “Together we move South Africa Forward”. The month-long campaign will roll out and showcase transport infrastructure development and services as well as flagship projects delivered across all modes of transport. Nzimande and dignitaries will interact with commuters on a train ride from the east of Pretoria to the city centre. Then they will board taxis at the Bosman station to attend a multi-disciplinary law enforcement activation on the N12 freeway. Nzimande will launch the campaign with an award ceremony for Grade 11 and 12 pupils from all provinces who took part in a speech contest and debate on solutions to combat carnage on our roads.