They said the situation prevailed despite a legal requirement that a municipality accommodates at least 2% of people living with disabilities in its workforce. The affiliates of the African People’s Disabled Movement in April handed over a memorandum of grievances to Human Settlements MMC Mandla Nkomo highlighting the problem of under-representation at the metro. Yesterday, Nkomo said he had only been tasked with receiving the memo on behalf of mayor Solly Msimanga at the time. He said he would check what had since transpired after its delivery. Speaking on behalf of the disgruntled group, Veronica Baloyi said the concern was that Msimanga had to date not responded. She claimed that members of her organisation had been overlooked for all vacancies advertised this year. “In February, there were many posts advertised and none of us was called for an interview or even shortlisted despite that most of us met the requirements for the posts.” Baloyi claimed that officials at the metro continued to toss her from pillar to post whenever she tried to seek answers from them regarding the hiring of the disabled. “No one is able to give us a reply as to how is the city addressing our representation in its staff.” She also said the discrimination against people living with disabilities was not only experienced at the metro, but it was also prevalent in corporate companies. During a march to Msimanga’s head offices, the group also demanded that a Disability Unit be moved from the Social Development Department and placed at the mayor’s office. Msimanga’s spokesperson Samkelo Mgobozi said the city had established a process through which the Employment Equity Division was empowered to ring-fence suitable positions on the job forums and approach relevant departments to shortlist and appoint applicants with disabilities on those identified suitable positions. “Since then, a number of potential applicants were called for interviews. It is, however, truthful to state that there are certain departments which have tried not to comply, hence a sub- mission made by the internal disability forum to the Office of the Governance and Support Officer for intervention.” He said the city had appointed a person living with a disability as the divisional head for Social Development Services and Strategic Interest Groups Development Division “which is a sign of commitment on the side of the City of Tshwane in accommodating persons with disabilities”. Regarding a demand to relocate the Disability Unit into the mayor’s office, he said: “We are about to adopt a draft policy on disability rights and take it out for public participation. It is through that process that persons with disabilities will voice their wishes where they want their unit to be placed in the structure of the City of Tshwane.”