Executive mayor Solly Msimanga yesterday conducted an in-loco inspection at the site in Atteridge- ville Extension 19. The undertaking to build houses for the poor was made after the City sold the mayoral house for R5million during an auction last year. Msimanga said the inspection was part of conducting oversight over mayoral special projects. The houses will be allocated to deserving families. He said: “I am pleased that we will soon be handing over the finished houses and issuing title deeds so that recipients have legal ownership of their homes.” He expressed gratitude to MMC for Human Settlements Mandla Nkomo and his team for the hard work they put into the project. “We will be able to bring much-needed formalisation and housing opportunities across Tshwane throughout the financial year in our prioritised areas. Nothing is more gratifying than to witness what was once a costly single mansion with little to no benefit for Tshwane residents being turned decent housing for 40 families who have been waiting for years to have a home to call their own.” The stands were serviced by the department of utility services and handed over to the human settlements department recently to begin construction. “The City will use alternative building technologies which are environmentally friendly, durable, easy to maintain and aesthetically pleasing to realise this project,” said Msimanga. The qualifying beneficiaries were identified from all seven regions across the City, and elderly and child-headed families were prioritised. Msimanga said: “Specific consideration was given to families with special needs. Identification of beneficiaries was also done in consultation with the ward councillors. It is our desire to promote full beneficiary participation in the building of these homes.” As part of the project, beneficiaries would get opportunities to work on building their own homes to promote a sense of ownership in their properties, Msimanga said. “This project is a demonstration of our commitment to give more people in our City access to a range of housing opportunities and safe living environments.” He said the establishment of Extension 19 would lessen the problem of people in Brazzaville, who stayed on dolomitic land. “Those who will be moved here have already been identified and informed about the process of moving them here,” he said.