There were scenes of jubilation at the TUT Arts campus as both the TUT men and women’s football teams showed off their trophies during a victory parade. TUT men were recently crowned Varsity Football champions after beating Wits University 2-1. TUT women were also crowned Varsity Football champs after beating the University of the Western Cape by the same scoreline as their male counterparts. It is the only university to ever win a double gold twice in the tournament. The 2018 Varsity Football champions, also known as the "red machine" were in high spirits as they paraded around the campus, boastfully displaying their accomplishments. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  The parade started at the main campus in Pretoria West around 10am, proceeded to the Arts campus and then to the Arcadia campus. The tournament took place in September. TUT football manager Magoikantse Kgomo spoke to the Pretoria News during the parade. “The reason why you see the women and men high performance teams parading around TUT campus is that both teams have made history. "They have both remarkably won the 2018 Varsity Football competition which means they are number one in the country in terms of football at universities. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  “The competition was televised live on SuperSport and everyone witnessed it. "They broke records this year because the women’s team won this competition for the fifth time this year out of their six appearances in the finals. "The men won it for the second time after four appearances in the finals and over and above this the men won this competition playing all their matches away because of the ban that we received because of trouble at last year's final against Tuks. It was amazing winning by not playing any games at home,” he said. The teams will also be going to the Soshanguve campus.