They were joined by Police and Prisons Civil Rights Union (Popcru) members to protest against what they described as the inhumane and life-threatening conditions under which they were working. The building was closed by Executive Mayor Solly Msimanga on September 12 for being unsafe, but reopened a few days later by the department. Msimanga subsequently lifted the order to close the building. Among many of the complaints were loose wiring across the building, ceilings caving in and and dilapidated elevators. Most of the picketers, who had reportedly been sitting outside everyday for the past two weeks, had been arriving there at 7am and leaving at 4pm. “It shows that we are willing to work; all we are asking for is a safe working environment,” said a worker. The union’s Richard Mamabolo said that a few days after Msimanga announced the closure of the building, the department declared it safe despite any evidence to justify the decision. “The City of Tshwane had closed down the building, but the department informed members in a meeting that it had resolved all the challenges and that the building was now habitable. “They failed to provide proof of that and there was no certificate that assured members the building is safe,” he said. Mamabolo said some of the union’s members were being threatened by the department for raising concerns about safety. “Members have been threatened with being summarily dismissed. Meanwhile, management failed to prove beyond reasonable doubt that the building is habitable.” He said that to date, management had not responded to an appeal for discussions, but opted to completely withdraw from engagements on the matter. Mamabolo said workers need to be relocated to another building. “We are not saying members should not go to work, but we are asking can the department please relocate them to other places,” he said. “An option is the Kgosi Mampuru II Correctional Centre, from where they can do their work and continue providing services without putting their lives at risk,” he said. Popcru vowed to picket outside the building until Thursday, when the matter will be heard at the Labour Court in Joburg.