A PARAFFIN stove caused the fire that gutted 50 shacks and left about 500 people displaced at the Plastic View informal settlement in Moreleta Park, east of the city. Tshwane Emergency Services spokesperson Johan Pieterse said there were no injuries. Initially, two children had been reported missing after the fire broke out at midday on Saturday, but they were later found. “Our first vehicles arrived within 12 minutes we had to protect a row of shacks. It was lots of blocks in an area of about 40m, with the nearest block 4m from the fire. We had to place firefighters there to stop the fire from spreading further. “We lost a single block, unfortunately, which contained about 50 shacks; so about 500 people were affected,” Pieterse said. The fire could have been more difficult to control had it been at night, he said. “We would've had a major problem because at night people panic and the fire would have spread more quickly. “The community leader indicated that it was caused by a paraffin stove that was left unattended. But obviously people will start pointing fingers at each other, and to do shack fire investigation is really difficult.” Executive Mayor Solly Msimanga, who arrived to the scene with MMC for Community Safety Anniruth Kissoonduth, said the woman believed to have caused the fire had to be taken to a place of safety. “Unfortunately the community wanted to beat the lady from whose shack the fire started,” he said. Msimanga also appealed to the public to assist the victims. “We will be trying to provide some tents in the meantime so that people have a place to sleep. We have already also made a call to the public for clothing, blankets, food, water and whatever else that we can assist the people with.” David Hlambela said he managed to escape from the fire with only the clothes he was wearing. “I had just got back from the shops buying groceries with my wife. I have no idea where I’m going to sleep and I have a small baby; it is just a disaster.” Lebogang Mothoane, whose toddler has cerebral palsy, said she also lost everything, including medication, her passport and a clinic card. Community leader Benjamin Sithole said they were tired of living in poor conditions while people in neighbouring areas lived an opulent life. “We want a way forward." Msimanga’s call to assist paid off when victims received food parcels, blankets and clothes at the church near the informal settlement. The City’s disaster management divisional chief Tanja Terblanche said they had enough parcels for everyone affected, including 300 mattresses from the City.