Executive mayor Solly Msimanga gave this rough estimate yesterday when he conducted oversight visits to several areas hit by sinkholes. He said the money would be needed to “alleviate dolomitic areas” which caused the sinkholes. Msimanga said there were several sinkholes in Laudium and Centurion, and in most parts west of Pretoria towards Krugersdorp. The areas, he said, were on a dolomitic belt. He said that in Laudium there were three sinkholes the City was working on. They included one on the R55, a second on 2nd Avenue and another one “deeper inside”. Work on 2nd Avenue was, according to Msimanga, costing the City R15m and was 40% complete. “Repairs on 2nd Avenue will be done in the first week of February, and the road will be rehabilitated. The R55 repair works is also costing between R18m and R20m and will be completed by the end of November.” He hoped the road would be reopened in the first week of December once work on stormwater drainage was completed. “There are sinkholes in Erasmia and Valhalla, but they are not that big, so we might be able to speedily fix them up without it costing the City this much.” Msimanga said the City’s budget of R20m for repairs was not enough to deal with all the sinkholes. Priority would be given to the big ones that posed an immediate threat to people. After that the City would work backwards to treat all problem areas and try to find alternative ways to deal with them quickly, he said. Msimanga was happy that timelines were adhered to and that the projects were running within their allocated budgets. Businesses in Centurion and Laudium have for months lost revenue of between 50% and 70% as a result of the sinkholes. Msimanga acknowledged that since last year, the areas had been plagued by sinkholes, which affected some major roads during heavy floods. Phillip Lourens, who owns a filling station on the corner of Jean Avenue and Gerhard Street in Centurion, said he was relieved that the construction work was finally complete. Lourens said many of the businesses near the busy intersection were severely impacted by the sinkhole. He said business had declined at times and it was “almost an economic catastrophe”. “We are definitely relieved. Business has its ups and downs and it’s all about how you deal with it.” Msimanga said Jean Avenue had been closed for almost two years, and as work began, another sinkhole developed. “I’ve been assured by the team who fixed the road that it is now one of the safest roads in the area, and the technology that has been used guarantees that nothing should form again. “It has cost the City over R25m to fix that’s what was needed to fix this sinkhole even though it appeared small. “We’re still going to engage with businesses and do whatever we can to help them advertise and bring life back to their businesses.” Jean Avenue will officially be reopened by Msimanga today.