"Be blessed little angel and know that the nation is behind you, wishing you healing and peace.” This was one of the heartfelt messages that keep pouring in for the 7-year-old girl who was raped at a Dros franchise in Silverton. And while the whole nation was engulfed in horror following the incident, strangers have opted not to let bad be the only thing to come out the incident but also to show the meaning of "ubuntu" in action. As such, a fundraising campaign has been created on donations based crowdfunding platform, BackaBuddy to help pay for therapy of the girl. The campaign was created on October 3, by concerned citizens who wished to remain anonymous. "We prefer to remain anonymous in this campaign – We don't need any recognition or importance out of it, what's important is that we come together as concerned South Africans, and help this young victim, whose life has all but been destroyed.” “Our team was saddened and disturbed by the events and our hearts go out to the victim and her family." – said one of campaign creators. The group stated that they hoped the funds would be used to help rebuild the young girl’s life. "We know that rape can traumatise the victim emotionally for years afterwards, so we hope the funds raised will be used for therapy and rehabilitation for the victim so that she can have some semblance of normality or even happiness again.” To date since the creation of the campaign, 55 "good samaritans" heeded the selfless call with one contributing as much as R 31 018.97. So far R46 879.39 has been raised in total. Zane Groenewald, public relations officer for BackaBuddy, said all funds raised would be strictly managed by the non-profit organisation. He said the money would only be released to the family directly or the relevant practitioners by the family. “In the event that we are unable to reach the family, donors can rest assured that they will be informed and refunded accordingly.” Those interested in donating towards the campaign can go to the following address: "https://www.backabuddy.co.za/help-the-dros-rape-victim-to-rehabilitate or visit the BackaBuddy.co.za homepage.  For more information contact you can also contact zane@backabuddy.co.za. 