While the City confirmed that the contract with the service provider ended on June 3, it stated that the Tshwane metro police had since taken the overall control of monitoring of the surveillance cameras. In addition, the metro police officers were dispatched to crime hot spots and had in three months effected 114 arrests for various crimes, which include drunk-driving, assault, theft out of motor vehicles, theft of motor vehicles and bribery. City spokesperson Selby Bokaba said arrests were all made possible by the monitoring of the CCTV surveillance cameras. He said a new tender was advertised and applications were set to come before bid adjudication committee next week. “The City of Tshwane acknowledges the significant role the surveillance cameras play in the fight against crime, hence the urgent need to expeditiously evaluate the tender next week, with a view to awarding the contract as soon as possible,” Bokaba said. He was reacting to claims by the ANC in Tshwane that the cameras were not monitored and maintained because the City had not renewed its contract with the service provider. The ANC blamed the “corrupt and incompetent” DA-led administration under executive mayor Solly Msimanga for the situation. Party spokesperson Bafuze Yabo said 319 cameras covered places such as Marabastad, CBD, Arcadia, Sunnyside, Hatfield, Brooklyn, Waterkloof, Groenkloof, Muckleneuck, Garsfontein, Menlyn area, Centurion, Lynwood and Mooikloof. “These cameras cover the Union Buildings and the Hatfield and Arcadia area where most high commissions and embassies are situated. The diplomatic community is now at risk due to the shutting off of these surveillance security cameras. The lives of the president..., deputy president and the executive are now exposed to criminal elements,” Yabo said. He called for the MEC of safety and security and the police minister to increase policing in the affected areas. “The camera infrastructure is also vulnerable and exposed to risk of being stolen or vandalised. The fibre-optic cable network, which runs into tens of kilometres due to camera distances from the control room, will also be vulnerable,” Yabo said.