More than 10 stables would be offered to the department’s equestrian unit, said Fort Klapperkop ­stables manager Sulette Pottas, who said permanent horseback officers were excellent “beacons” to the nature reserve. “This a great plan and will do a lot to curbcrime,” she emphasised. The stakeholders are scheduled to meet the equestrian unit next week to discuss the implementation of the “trotters”. Metro police spokesperson Senior Superintendent Isaac Mahamba said they were aware of the meeting scheduled next week to discuss the matter, but nothing concrete had been agreed upon as yet. “If what is proposed is feasible, then we will look into it,” he said. Local councillor Shaun Wilkinson has been at the forefront of trying to find viable solutions to the crime problem in the nature reserve. He reckoned mounted officers were the perfect solution, coupled with other security measures. Having mounted officers working in conjunction with other personnel on foot, in cars, and on bikes would make for a safer Fort Klapperkop, he emphasised. “I’ve often said that the crime at Fort Klapperkop needs a team effort and a solid modus operandi with various stakeholders,” he said. Gareth Pahl, of the Hi-risk Unit security company, which patrols the nature reserve, said the most common robberies happened at viewpoints where friends and couples usually went after hours for a view of the Pretoria skyline. The viewpoints were at the highest points inside the nature reserve, from where sightseers could observe the city and the hiking trails. It was at these viewpoints that criminals waited in the thick bush and pounced while their victims were enjoying the scenery. “Most of the sightseers or cyclists like to stop and get out of their cars or off their bicycles and sit on the benches for the splendid view. But their beautiful experiences were often short-lived,” he said. In June, the nature reserve experienced a record 30 muggings in 13 days, which prompted the City to restrict visiting hours to between 7am and 5pm. Controlled access is implemented during the day, and visitors have to sign in at the boom gates. According to Wilkinson, no crime incidents had been reported since the implementation of visiting hours. However, he said, criminals were now targeting surrounding residents. Frustrated residents said a group of men was prowling the area, breaking into houses, stealing cars and mugging residents. Wilkinson also suggested that monthly markets at various sites around Fort Klapperkop would see more people visiting the area and ultimately drive away criminals.