They are Johannes Sbisha, 24, Nkosinathi Mahlangu, 25, and Eugene Phetla, 27. Sbisha and Da Perc are from from Atteridgeville and Soshanguve respectively and went to study at the Tshwane University of Technology. They started a relationship while studying and developed an interest in music production, DJing and event management. Their love for the industry grew and they began partnering with Phetla, a vocalist from Soshanguve to form the trio Sbisha & Da Perc. They were given gigs for varsity parties, weddings, private parties and in popular nightclubs in Pretoria, Polokwane and Mpumalanga. Sbisha & Da Perc were also part of the team that formed Soul for Real Events Management and worked with Ma’canama Music for the production of the album Riddles -The parables of Music by Da Perc. Sbisha & Da Perc released their first singles in 2016 titled Vibrations of The Deep as well as Newer Days. The songs are for sale on digital platforms. Sbisha & Da Perc have continued publishing their music and mix tapes online for music fans. Are you from the capital? Yes, we are. What do you like most about the city? The communal spirit and facilities that the city has to offer for people like us artists as well as clubs and parks. What things would you change if you were the mayor? We would change the social welfare system in our communities and ensure active intervention in this regard. We would also make sure there are more social workers to counter the social ills within our communities. The higher academic system is suffering due to countless ills in society. What do you think the advantages are of living in the city? You are closer to facilities that can enable growth and easy networking. What job do you do and does it satisfy you? Music, and yes, it is extremely satisfying. We cannot imagine doing anything else. If you moved away from the city where would you go? The countryside, exactly the opposite of Pretoria. We would be able to experience a different side to life. Which sport team do you support? We are Kaizer Chiefs fans.