Scientists gathered at the 2nd Annual International Conference on Food Safety and Security say the Listeria outbreak that gripped the country with fear should be a constant reminder to stakeholders and consumers to maintain high hygiene standards when dealing with food every single day. On the final day of the three-day food safety conference held at the St George Hotel in Centurion today; agriculture organisations, scientists, researchers and academics spoke of the importance of people being hyper-vigilant with what they put in their mouths. Dr Stacey Duvenage, from the University of Pretoria (UP) and a member of the Food Security and Safety Scientific Committee, said while the previous Listeria outbreak had subsided that in no way meant the virus was cured or non-existent. "Where does listeriosis come from? In numerous places such as the soil and we can't conclude with certainty that simply because there are less reported cases therefore it's gone. "Perhaps we need to look at ethics and morals of the food businesses to make sure companies do the right things even when no one is looking." "The outbreak led us to have the right systems in place but we still have dead people so that must mean we've got something wrong with some of the systems or perhaps they are not functioning as they should.” Another issue raised in the various sessions was the safety of food sold by street vendors. As Tintswalo Baloyi, a research student also from UP, said while most people were focused on food served to the upper class, retailers and restaurants, they neglected the safety of food the rest of the population was consuming. "The majority of the population is poor and they purchase fruits and vegetables from street vendors. Buying food from street vendors is not the problem the only precaution we have to encourage is for people to wash their food even if they bought them at top retailers." "There is no blame game to be had in ensuring food safety because we all play a part in it. And it can be something as small as not putting meat and spinach in the same fridge uncovered as there are many micro-organisms at play there." Dr. Stephen Amoo, specialist researcher at the Agricultural Research Council, said the food industry could also learn to take a page out of indigenous knowledge systems especially with regards to food gathering as well as preservation and safety of food. Two methods used in Africa Dr. Amoo noted for processing and preservation of food were methods such as smoking and sun drying. "Things such as local knowledge on the role of smoke has given rise to a new multi-disciplinary field that employs smoke-technology as a valuable tool for enhancing food safety and security." "Interestingly this knowledge is well recognized among indigenous people."