Relaying heart-warming and inspiring tales about “Bra Moss”, speakers took turns to share their moments with Chikane. He died last Wednesday night after a long illness. They packed the Mamelodi International Assemblies of God hall, which vibrated with song as fellow comrades sang Struggle songs in celebration of the fallen hero. The 69-year-old was mostly remembered as a hero, an optimistic man who made the world a better place, and a humble diplomat who strived for global peace. Friend and comrade Pasty Malefo jokingly said: “I beg to differ with the pastor who described Bra Moss as quiet and humble. Bra Moss was a handful in life and naughty. He might have fooled most with his dignitary strict act, but our friend was quite the joker.” Also in attendance was his cousin Reverend Frank Chikane, ANC Gauteng treasurer Parks Tau and ANC Women League members. Chikane was among 22 accused in the Delmas Treason Trial between 1985 and 1988. ANC Tshwane regional chairperson Dr Kgosi Maepa said there were talks to rename the longest street in Mamelodi after him. There were discussions at the 2017 ANC national conference to change the name of Tsamaya Road to Moss Chikane Drive, he said. “The stalwarts would like to see the name and the legacy in the home where he participated as a liberation Struggle activist,” he said, much to the loud cheers of attendees. The service was also the first time the public had a chance to hear intimate family stories about the slain ambassador’s life - showing his character and giving insight into his past. He was also remembered as a family oriented man. His son Tokologo Chikane said despite all Chikane’s travels and worldly excursions, he always came home for big events, holidays and weddings. “He was big on family and prioritised that over everything." One of his fondest memories was when he travelled with his dad to China. “We experienced the Chinese culture and cuisine together." Lucas Qhalaza of the SA National Civic Organisation called Chikane a “hero” who "sacrificed his life for us... with his never say die spirit". Another memorial for Chikane will be held at the Department of International Relations and Co-operation tomorrow. His funeral will be on Saturday at the Mamelodi International Assemblies of God from 9am.