The ANC filed an urgent court application on Friday in the Gauteng High Court, Pretoria, seeking to have her ruling voided. The party also wants the September 27 council sitting, when the ANC motion was defeated, to be nullified as it was not properly constituted. In court papers, ANC caucus leader Dr Kgosi Maepa said the constitution of the sitting, that started 40 minutes late, contravened Rule 4.1 of council. The rule stated that “a meeting not started within 20 minutes from the advertised time of the meeting starting is deemed to be postponed”. Maepa also argued that “the refusal of the Speaker to hold a meeting by secret ballot was an improper exercise of the discretion afforded to her, having regard to the then prevailing circumstances”. He cited an affidavit by City manager Dr Moeketsi Mosola, in which he indicated “that he had to physically protect himself and physically fight back against Councillor Cilliers Brink (also the MMC for Shared and Corporate Services)". Maepa said the altercation between the two contributed to a situation of mistrust and fear in the council. “Council is now placed in a very invidious position where members are unable to express what they actually feel without fear of being assaulted, physically chastised or threatened as well as being expelled from the organisation,” Maepa stated in court papers. Tiyiselani Babane, the strategic executive head in the office of the Speaker, confirmed the court papers had been served on the City and were being handled by the legal department. He said Mathebe believed the Constitutional Court ruling in a case of the UDM and National Assembly Speaker Baleka Mbete was clear - that the discretion to allow the secret ballot, or not, rested with the Speaker. “The Speaker has to look at a number of things that ought to persuade her of the need for voting through secret ballot,” he said. Babane said the Speaker exercised her discretion properly because there were no other reasons that convinced her otherwise. “She would have to assess the situation and be convinced of there being reasons that should inform her decision. We feel strongly that there is nothing wrong with the decision,” Babane said. But Maepa said Mathebe undermined the Constitutional Court judgment by overlooking the potential danger faced by DA councillors who would like to vote out Msimanga. According to Maepa, DA councillors couldn’t openly vote against Msimanga because they were scared they could be punished. The Constitutional Court ruling stated that allowing for voting through secret ballot must be necessitated by an element of corruption, Maepa said. “We have demonstrated corruption, by citing the GladAfrica case." GladAfrica is at the centre of a R12billion tender irregularity; it was contracted to the City to assist in the roll-out of infrastructure projects. The court application listed the City of Tshwane, Speaker of council, Msimanga, the DA, EFF, Cope, ACDP, PAC and FF Plus as respondents.