According to Vadi, the initiative will also go a long way towards moving the province forward as it seeks to adopt car-free zones. The initiative was launched in Pretoria by Vadi and City Transport MMC Sheila Lynn Senkubuge. Initially, the project would see eight active Sharpeville waste collectors receive cargo e-bikes to conduct their recycling activities before it was rolled out province-wide, if successful, Vadi said. The e-bikes were manufactured in Berlin, Germany, and would eventually be produced in South Africa if the pilot was a success, he said. The e-bikes have space for the waste collectors to put their loads on, and run on a battery that could be recharged at various normal sources of power. They also come with a safety gear and pedals in case they ran out of power. Representatives from the Department of Roads and Transport and the federal Ministry for the Environment, Nature conservation, Building and Nuclear safety in Germany showcased the e-bikes at the Innovation Hub. Vadi said: “We often speak about transformation, modernisation and re-industrialisation, but to achieve the outcome of such a society we need to develop our capacity as a country to innovate. The cargo e-bike represents technological innovation that can help to take us forward. The Berlin team has shown that we can turn our ideas into products, and then into an industry of local manufacturing and beneficiation through our ingenuity.” He said the cargo e-bike were produced through months of capital and seed funding from the German government, which demonstrated that South Africans could introduce transport innovation locally. “The cargo e-bike is a game changer for several reasons. It provides us with another mode of transport: a low-cost entry into the transport sector that can support micro-enterprises. It gives us the opportunity to reduce our carbon footprint by shifting from petrol to electric propulsion. “It empowers us to manufacture locally, and by doing so to further our national interests through import replacement. "The cargo e-bike is a small step forward towards re-industrialisation.” Vadi said that at the moment the waste harvesters pulled trolleys, making it hard for them to make an honest living. “We believe the bikes will enable them to move much more product from the collection point to the selling point, and by doing so will increase their income to earn a decent living.” The cargo e-bike will be fitted with a GPS providing data showing its ruggedness, safety and mileage covered.