According to the City, Kgomotso Mabusela succumbed to her battle from TB on Wednesday. MMC for Economic Development Randall Williams said claims that the revenue collection department staffer had died as a result of dust on the carpet were false. On the other hand, the dead woman’s grandmother Lorna Mabusela, while not denying that her daughter had been diagnosed with TB, said her condition deteriorated as a result of dust on the dirty carpet at work. The grief-stricken mother, Joyce Selepe, said the inhalation of dust caused her daughter to breathe with difficulty. She said she wanted the City to compensate her family for the loss of their daughter. Kgomotso was recently diagnosed with TB and her X-ray results showed that her right lung was severely damaged. Nonetheless, Mabusela believes that dust on the carpets contributed to her granddaughter’s condition. “The City of Tshwane is so careless, and its offices don’t comply with the Occupational Health Standards. I am hurt because I lost a child because of them,” Mabusela said. “I feel like the City of Tshwane has robbed me of my child. I want them to account for what happened. “I want to take this up with the City management and this is not only because of my daughter, but for other employees who might be facing the same situation.” On September 26, Kgomotso went on sick leave, claiming she could not cope with the conditions at work. “Her director at work told her to go home and come back when she was well. We took her to Kgabo Clinic, where an X-ray was performed on her. The doctor said one of her lungs was damaged and that it needed to grow again. They said she had a touch of TB,” Mabusela said. Williams admitted that following the storms at the weekend there was water damage to Sammy Marks offices. Officials were sent home on Monday to allow for the property to dry and an assessment of the damage made. “On September 14, 2018, Executive Mayor Solly Msimanga wrote to the City Manager (Dr Moeketsi Mosola) instructing him to institute a comprehensive investigation immediately and report on the occupational health and safety standards and fire compliance for City of Tshwane buildings. “This was done to ensure that our buildings, which house hundreds of employees, are safe,” Williams said. Workers who spoke to the Pretoria News anonymously corroborated Mabusela’s version. They claimed that numerous complaints lodged with the management about their poor working conditions fell on deaf ears. The workers threatened not to report for duty until their grievances were addressed.