The father launched an urgent application that his former wife allow him to view the body in the morgue. Malesela Mooka also asked the court to interdict his former wife Yvonne Mooka from removing the body from the morgue without his consent. And he wanted her barred from burying their son Aubrey Mooka in Gauteng or any other place, other than Mahlaba Village in Bakenburg, Limpopo. The father said this was his son’s ancestral home. He said in court papers that he tried to reason with his ex-wife, but she wouldn't listen. “I told her that she should not distort our culture. The burial of the deceased at a cemetery that is urban and away from his home and against the wish of his people is a curse and a belittling of my culture.” The son died on October 19, and although he was no longer a minor and had two children of his own, Mooka said he was his closest next-of-kin. He said he met his former wife and her family to try to talks things over, but they refused him access to the corpse or any input in the funeral arrangements. His former wife was set on burying their son in Springs, where she and her family lived, he said. There was no co-operation between her and their son’s paternal family after the dispute over the burial venue, he said. She refused to negotiate common ground and he was even prepared to hold the ceremony at a local hall in Bakenberg. “The conduct of her and her family is like desiring the Mooka child to be buried away from his real home and this is culturally unacceptable.” Mooka also complained that his ex-wife, who once embraced the Zion Christian Church when she was married to him, returned to her own family church after their divorce. “I would not like my child to be buried in the church and cultural practice of the Manala family (his ex-wife’s family).” Mooka said he had already notified the tribal authority in his village of his son’s death, cattle were waiting to be slaughtered for the ceremony, and he had made minor renovations to his home to welcome the mourners. “The burial of my son in a strange land which he has no relation to, amounts to disrespect to my dignity,” he told the court. But the boy’s mother said that after their divorce she cared for their two children and paid their way, despite her former husband’s promises of assistance. She struggled to provide for the son’s education by herself, but she managed to do so. She said there was a poor relationship between father and son, especially after the father assaulted her son. Both subsequently opened a case of assault against each other. “The applicant (husband) is acting strangely in claiming constitutional and customary responsibility to bury the deceased, while he failed to discharge his obligations to maintain him during his lifetime. He also failed to mentor and guide him.” The mother said she respected cultural practices, but her son’s life was spent in Gauteng. Judge Moses Mavundla dismissed the father’s application.