Pretoria - The City of Tshwane has denied that the untimely death of one the employees at the Sammy Marks Square offices was caused by dust on the carpet. MMC for Economic Development Randall Williams said the employee Kgomotso Mabusela succumbed to her battle with tuberculosis (TB). She was working as a revenue agent at the city's Sammy Marks Square offices. The deceased's mother Lorna Mabusela said her daughter died this week on Wednesday after she had constantly complained that dust on dirty carpets at work made her breathe with difficulties. She said she would like the City to compensate her family for the loss of their daughter. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  Her daughter was disgnosed with TB recently and her X-Rray results showed that her right lung was severely damaged. Mabusela believed that dust and smelly carpets contributed to her daughter's deteriorating health condition. "The City of Tshwane is so careless and their offices don't comply with the occupational health standard. I am hurt because I lost a child because of them," Mabusela said. On September 26, her daughter went on sick leave after she could not cope with being at work. "Her director at work told her to go home and come back when she is well. "We took her to Kgabo clinic, where an X-tray was performed on her. "The doctor said one of her lungs was damaged and that it needed to grow again. They said she had a touch of TB," Mabusela said. Williams said following the storms in Tshwane at the weekend there was some water damage to Sammy Marks and the officials were sent home on Monday to allow for the property to dry and to allow for an assessment of the damage. "On September 14, the executive mayor, Solly Msimanga, wrote to the City Manager instructing him to immediately institute a comprehensive investigation and report on the occupational health and safety standards and fire compliance for City of Tshwane buildings. "This was done to ensure that our buildings, which house hundreds of employees are safe," Williams said.