Top engineer Punki Majola from Erkuhuleni Municipality expressed disappointment that there was little progress made in terms of advancing opportunities for women entering the energy sector. She said the situation needed to change to accommodate more women in decision-making positions. Majola spoke during the second day of the electricity conference hosted by the Association of Municipal Electricity Utilities of Southern Africa at the CSIR. "The training of women to compete with their male counterparts is a challenge. "Action needs to be taken to ensure that women occupy positions of decision-making," she said. She challenged women to be hungrier for leadership positions and participate in the gender-mainstreaming programmes such as women in electricity. "Gender-mainstreaming is a process of accessing the implication of women and men of any plan of action including legislation, policies or programme in all areas," Majola said. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  Electrical engineer Seydou Kane said corporate companies had an obligation to mirror the representation of women in their organograms. Eaton, said his multinational technology company, boasted women as 70% of its workforce in Morocco. Participant Gugu Motsotso talked about women entrepreneurship, saying the challenge for having so few women in the sector was due to lack of interest in engineering at times. However, she said the challenges can be overcome by exploring ways of rekindling the interest of women in the sector. Senior official at Ethekwini Municipality Veer Ramnarain said the recruitment of women in the public sector was very critical in dealing with their shortages in decision-making positions. He said his municipality worked out a plan to give bursaries to potential students interested in engineering. The municipality worked closely with schools and provided learners with opportunities to interact with city engineers.