DURBAN – Waterfall Management Company was honoured with the Best Mixed-use Development in South Africa 2018/2019 award for the Waterfall development. Besides winning this prestigious award for the fifth year in a row, the development was also nominated for Best Mixed-use Development in Africa by the International Property Awards in Africa and Arabia chapter. The awards which were held in Dubai last week are in their 26th year. The International Property Awards celebrate the very best projects and professionals in the industry worldwide, covering the regions of Asia Pacific, Africa and Arabia among others. The judging of the awards is focused on aspects like design, quality, service, innovation, originality, and commitment to sustainability. The top scoring five-star winners from each category in Africa will be put through the judging process again against the five-star winners in the other regions of the world. After the judging, the 2018 International winners in each category will be identified as the "World’s Best". The announcement of these winners will take place later this year in London. In 2017, Waterfall won both the Best Mixed-use Development in Africa for the fourth year running as well as the Best International Mixed-use Development 2017/2018 award. Willie Vos the chief executive of Waterfall Management Company said, "Waterfall made history last year as the first South African company to ever win the Best International Mixed-use Development award. We can only hope that we can achieve the same feat in 2018. We are thrilled to have once again won Best in South Africa. Fingers crossed for Best in Africa and then the world." Waterfall Management Company is the Property and Asset Management Company of the Waterfall land. Since 2004, Waterfall Management Company has been working with developers and investors to create the largest mixed-use development in Africa. This 2 200-hectare leasehold development lies in the heart of Gauteng and offers integrated, fibre-ready live-work-play environments. BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE