THE elderly at Huis Davidtsz Old Age Home in the CBD celebrated  International Grandparents Day in style this morning. Solidarity’s Helping Hand organisation pampered the elderly with goodie bags and live music for entertainment. They also donated food, blankets, toiletries and detergents among other things to the home. Performers, including four ladies from the Tshwane Youth Choir, said they were excited to be singing for the elderly and making their day. The group of elders gathered at the dining hall to enjoy the good music while others received an “exclusive” performance in their rooms as they could not make it to the gathering area. Solidarity’s Helping Hand social worker, Christia Potgieter said the smiles on the old people’s faces wwere priceless. She said this was not because of the goodies they received but the fact there were people at the home to spend time with them. “A lot of people often ask what they should donate to the elderly but it is not always about the food or things one can donate but just spending some time with them is enough,” she said. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  Two months ago the frail patients at the home were left unattended for days after employees decided to down their tools demanding permanent jobs and better pay. Employees claimed to have worked at the centre for more than 20 years with no contracts and said they were underpaid and not allowed to take sick leave. Even so, Hannes Noeth, Helping Hands’ executive director said even after two months he was still shocked that there were people who made old people a weapon for their dispute. “We are here today to show that we are thankful that after two months everything is fine and to apologise to the community that what happened to the old people was not fair. We are glad that things are better and we hope that this will never happen again in the future,” he said. He further said in celebration of International Grandparents Day, this was to thank the elderly for their patience through the ordeal and to show them that they are worth good things.