“I had an incident once where my dishcloth caught fire while I was cooking. I tried to put it out with the fire extinguisher, but to my surprise it was empty,” she said. Millions of rand worth of hospital and personal property was damaged when an estimated seven flats housing staff burnt down, four completely. The buildings are part of the doctors’ quarters and are located inside the hospital premises. Yesterday, a few interns affected by the blaze said, looking back at the incident, they should have noticed the red flags. They had complained about the faulty electric connections, defunct fire hoses and empty fire extinguishers. In the early hours of October 20, medical interns had to flee as a blazing fire ripped through their residence. The cause of the fire is still unknown. But according to a reliable source, the hospital premises had continual power outages throughout that day. “Following that and under unknown circumstances, a fire broke out in one of the flats. Primary measures to stop the fire were attempted. The fire extinguishers and hose pipes were not working, both on the last and second-last floor,” said one intern. Some of them lost everything from ID books, logbooks, clothes, appliances and furniture. “I couldn’t believe my eyes when I saw the ashes of everything I owned,” another intern said. In addition to the faulty safety features, she said that in her two-year stay at the flats, there had never been any fire drills or safety courses. The students said the fire was eventually put out after five hours. The staff said a formal meeting with the management was only held two days after the incident. “For the whole weekend no one cared to ask where the affected were sleeping or eating. People were left to fend for themselves for more than 48 hours,” a male student doctor added. They said they were now shacking up at temporary residences with no parking, kitchens or furniture. The Health Department did not respond to enquiries about the fire and hospital chief executive, Dr Freddy Kgongwana, said they were not ready to talk about the incident yesterday.