A court challenge lodged by Tshwane regional ANC chairperson Dr Kgosi Maepa against Speaker of Council's ruling to disallow the use of a secret ballot during a vote of no confidence against mayor Solly Msimanga was a way of derailing council from its mandate. This was said by Msimanga on Tuesday at the Pretoria Central police station, where he went to dispose of an affidavit following last month's failed motion of no confidence against him tabled by the ANC. Msimanga was reacting to Maepa's urgent application in the Gauteng High Court, Pretoria, seeking to have Mathebe's ruling  rendered null and void. Maepa's application listed the City of Tshwane, Speaker of council, Msimanga, the DA, the EFF, Cope, the ACDP, PAC and FF Plus as respondents. Msimanga said the city's lawyers were confident that Maepa's case won't succeed in court, saying the application was an attempt to derail council from what needed to be done. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  "We are asking serious questions like who is Maepa acting on behalf of. "If he is acting as a councillor he should have raised those issues in council instead of sitting until 1am in the morning and then after losing (in council) come here to try and intervene council," he said. Msimanga also questioned the motive behind Maepa's application, casting doubt on who he actually represented. "The second thing is: does he have the mandate of the ANC to do what he is doing? "There is no document that suggests that he has the mandate of the ANC to do what he is doing," Msimanga said. He said the City didn't know whether Maepa was representing himself as a person or the caucas of the ANC or the regional party. According to Msimanga, Maepa was trying to confuse issues pertaining to the ongoing investigation into an engineering company GladAfrica and allegations of mismanagement by the city manager Dr Moeketsi Mosola. GladAfrica was at the centre of the allegations levelled against Mosola that he illegally awarded a tender to the company to assist in the rolling out of the infrastructure projects valued at R12 billion. Msimanga said: "You can't therefore bring those (before court) on an urgency basis. We are seeing this for what it is. This is a political maneuvering. The desperation of the ANC under Maepa is beginning to show in the City of Tshwane." In court papers, Maepa said the Constitutional Court cited that one of the basis's for allowing voting through secret ballot must be necessitated  by element of corruption. "We have demonstrated that there is corruption by citing the GladAfrica case," he said. His case also hinged on an affidavit made by Mosola, who disclosed how he was assaulted by the MMC for Shared and Corporate Services Cilliers Brink. He said DA councillors couldn't openly vote against Msimanga because they were scared they could be punished. The matter is expected to be heard at the Gauteng High Court, Pretoria, on October 23.