SOPHIE Semenya, who lives in an RDP house in Soshanguve, has become more obsessed about the weather than the average folk.  Weather conditions have become a life-threatening concern for her. When it's scorching hot, her dilapidated house in Extension 13 reeks of sewage and unbearable stenches. And when it rains the sewage fills up her house. When it's cold, and she has to stay indoors, this isn't safe either, because the unstable walls are caving in. Her house was wrecked because of the thunderstorm last weekend, and the stench of sewage hung thick in the air yesterday. This is the daily reality for Semenya and her neighbours. Their gripes include the poor drainage system and dilapidated stormwater drains. Semenya’s house is next to the busy M17 road, and the inefficient drainage system allows water to flow easily into her yard. Apart from the smell and floods that permeate her home, she said she was also suffering from respiratory problems, headaches and coughing as a result of the raw sewage which streams down the street. With the help of a neighbour, she dug a trench to try to deflect the water from her house. “Ever since I moved here in 2006 there has been a sewage problem.” Not only is she worried about the health risks the sewage poses to her and her family, but she fears her house may cave in as the liquid waste seeps into the walls and foundations, especially when it rains. “We are not able to enjoy life fully because of the stench and unhygienic conditions we live under. Everything and everywhere we go is contaminated. We might just die from an illness because of a problem that can be prevented." Mayoral spokesperson Samkelo Mgobozi said the City was aware of the dire state of stormwater drains. A prominent challenge to the efficiency of stormwater drainage systems in the townships – over and above the inadequate storm water systems development – was illegal dumping in the open channels, streams and  kerb inlets, he noted. This, he said, drastically reduced the capacity of drainage systems, thereby rendering the areas prone to flooding during heavy rain. The City has also spoken about the challenges of ageing infrastructure, some of which was unable to sustain the population growth. However, it has been rolling out programmes to upgrade them in recent months.