The planned ceremony to officially unveil the roads and stormwater infrastructure in Ga-Rankuwa Zone One was put on hold after complaints about the contractor's shoddy work. This happened on Tuesday in the township, where some residents had gathered to witness the unveiling of the project. City of Tshwane MMC for Roads of Transport, Sheila Senkubuge, was scheduled to mark the opening of facilities by cutting the ribbon. The opening was, however, cancelled after some residents expressed displeasure about the poor quality of the road and stormwater drainage valued at R18 million. The event was, instead, turned into a launch of Transport Month in the City. Some residents also questioned why the majority of the residents were not informed about the meeting. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Their councillor Tshepo Kgatle explained that he was under the impression that those, who were delegated to convene the meeting had not advertised it properly. He pleaded with angry residents to give Senkubuge a hearing and stop threatening to disrupt the meeting. Senior official at the department, Thabo Lebepe, said the project was started last year in July to construct a 2.6km road and 2.9km stormwater drainage system in the township. At least 25 locals were employed during the construction phase of the project, he said. Senkubuge also embarked on a walkabout in the township to inspect the construction of the road and stormwater drainage system. Asked about her overall impression, she said: "This is a good road that has been built but it does have some faults. The contractor says it needs about two weeks to make sure that it is fixed." She dismissed suggestions that the launch of Transport Month was a last-minute decision to make up for an unsuccessful occasion to unveil the infrastrcture. "The procedure was already done. It was never meant to be a ribbon cutting," she said. Her comment was despite a media statement on Monday that said she would "unveil a roads and stormwater project that has been successfully completed in Ga-Rankuwa, north of Pretoria". The statement further said the handover of the infrastructure project "covered the scope of 2.6km for asphalt surfaced roads and almost 3km of subsurface piped drainage system". The infrastructure was said to benefit the community in terms of reducing the risk of flooding in the township and of dust pollution.