The rare breed dog was allegedly used as revenge after the couple’s relationship hit the rocks. It is alleged that in a bid to get back at her former partner, the woman fetched Priscilla from his home while he was in hospital. She allegedly took the dog to the vet, where she ordered “the snip”. Priscilla is therefore not able to produce the expensive pups her owner Ralph van der Merwe, a Kilner Park, Pretoria businessman, hoped she would. Van der Merwe, 50, is claiming more than R1.2million in the Gauteng High Court, Pretoria, from Helena Janse van Rensburg, 48, his former partner, and her son, Francois Janse van Rensburg, who lived on a smallholding in Hammanskraal with his mother. Van der Merwe said in his particulars of claim that he was the owner of Priscilla, who was born in March last year. He said Francois came to his home in January this year while he was in the Eugene Marais Hospital with a heart condition. Van der Merwe’s employee was at home and he claimed that Francois told her that (Van der Merwe) asked him to collect the dog to take her to the vet. Priscilla was spayed the same day, after the mother and her son allegedly told the vet that they had the consent of the dog’s owner. Van der Merwe stated in court papers that if the dog had not been spayed he would have been able to receive a bi-annual income of about R270000 a litter. He calculated this at nine pups a litter, which he aimed at selling at R15000 a pup. He said Priscilla would have been able to produce pups for four-and-a-half years and he had now lost out on R1.215million. He wanted to recover this amount from his former partner. Janse van Rensburg also owned a Neapolitan Mastiff, which she used for breeding. It is claimed that she had her former partner's dog spayed so he could not compete with her business. This is a rare and exclusive market, Van der Merwe’s lawyer, Mario Coetzee said. Van der Merwe bought the pup after the breakup. Neither the mother nor the son have answered to these allegations yet, but in a twist of events, Francois, yesterday, turned to the court to object about the wording of the original summons he had received. He said in an affidavit that he was referred to in the document as “a gay male”. He wanted the court to order the removal of the word “gay” wherever it appeared in the document. He said this “citation” was scandalous, vexatious and irrelevant to the claim against him. “This was done with the sole intention to cause injury to my good name, reputation and dignity I wish to state that I am not gay and I was in fact in a heterosexual relationship” He accused Van der Merwe and attorney Coetzee of “attempting to hurt him” by calling him gay. He said Van der Merwe and his lawyer's actions were motivated by malice, because the break-up was bitter. He said his mother had to obtain a protection order against Van der Merwe because the latter entered their home whenever he wanted to. Francois said that on one such occasion Van der Merwe accused him of theft. This altercation caused him a great deal of stress and trauma, he stated. Francois said apart from this reference being hurtful, it also amounted to hate speech. Meanwhile, Coetzee said there was no need to go to court yesterday because he had removed the offensive passages. “I assumed it was true, as he (Francois) did not object to this wording when we used it in an affidavit during previous litigation,” Coetzee said. Meanwhile, the court postponed the matter indefinitely and ordered that the law society investigate the use of the “gay” word.