Magashule was briefing the media on the meeting of the ANC’s national executive committee at the weekend. ANC national officials have been tasked to further discuss and probe the allegations of a party coup. Outlining the outcomes of the ANC’s national executive committee meeting which was held at the weekend, Magashule said the top brass dealt with the plot allegations for the first time. “The NEC also discussed the alleged plot and agreed that this matter will be discussed by the officials of the ANC and the officials will report back with a view to lay this matter to rest,” he said. While Magashule did not divulge what approach would be taken by the officials to test the veracity of the claims, he maintained that there was still no proof on the allegations against him and other leaders. “We will deal with the rumours and we will deal with the allegations because something which has not been proven is an allegation,” Magashule said. The allegations have appeared to have further weakened the fragile relations between Ramaphosa and Magashule, as they took apparent broad swipes at each other after they surfaced. Addressing the national congress of Cosatu late last month, Ramaphosa slammed those implicated in the plot against him and called on them to reveal their true agenda, without mention names. In what appeared to be a veiled attack back against Ramaphosa, Magashule told members of the South African Students’ Congress in the Free State that no ANC leadership could stop him from meeting Zuma. “I am not a product of white people. I am not a product of capital. There are people who are products of the white man in the ANC,” he said. Ramaphosa’s business interests over the years have seen him amassing a fortune which has turned him into a billionaire. Yesterday, Magashule was, however, at pains to explain that he and Ramaphosa were working well together. “Me and comrade Ramaphosa we won’t allow wedge drivers to come between us. Cyril Ramaphosa is the leader of the ANC and therefore, serving under him as secretary general has always been a pleasure, he said. “We agree with the president, that this is the time to plot against poverty,” he said. Magashule, who has been implicated in state capture allegations in relation to his tenure as Free State premier, said the NEC called on members of the public who were implicated or had information to approach the commission. The party has also set up a task team aimed at assisting the ANC to prepare for its national conference, which was scheduled for later this month. The team includes Magashule, ANC head of presidency Zizi Kodwa, head of elections Fikile Mbalula and national working committee member Ronald Lamola, among others. Magashule also confirmed that Supra Mahumapelo had resolved to pull out of a provincial task team set up after his executive was disbanded.