DURBAN – Trade and Investment KwaZulu-Natal held an investment seminar where the MEC of Economic Development, Tourism and Environmental Affairs Sihle Zikalala unveiled investment opportunities that are worth more than R200 million. The seminar which is being held ahead of the Global Investor Conference brought together important members of the finance and investment sector of KwaZulu-Natal and the country. Present at the event was the Chairperson of the Board of TIKZN Ina Cronje, the chief executive of TIKZN Neville Matjie, the Mayor of Durban Zandile Gumede and the President of the Durban Chamber of Commerce Musa Makhunga. At the seminar, Zikalala said that KwaZulu-Natal has highlighted investment opportunities that are worth more than R200 million as a part of the province's contribution to the national investment drive that was launched by President Cyril Ramaphosa. "For all these projects, development sites have already been secured and to a large extent are in the process of implementation, including the acquisition of funding and undertaking of feasibility studies," said Zikalala. These investment opportunities will create 800 000 temporary jobs during the construction and development phase of the projects. A further 410 000 jobs permanent jobs will be created in the short to long term. Also present at the seminar was Phumzile Langeni who is a member of President Cyril Ramaphosa's special presidential investment envoy. In her address, Langeni highlighted the achievements in the President's mission $100 billion investment target. According to Langeni, $35 billion of the target amount has been secured in five months. On the investment target, Lnageni said that half of the money should come from international investors while the other half should come from South Africa soil. Langeni said that the investment conference is important because it sends the message that we are open for business and that South Africa is the gateway to Africa. A presentation from the MEC was made to the special presidential envoy at the seminar too. Zikalala presented to Langeni a KwaZulu-Natal Investment Opportunities booklet. Follow the Business Report on Instagram here BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE