The 18-year-old Lynnwood-based Pretoria Boys High School pupil was convinced to join the 8th Pretoria St Albans troops five years ago. He said it took him a year to complete the journey towards receiving Springbok level. He did that in under three months and just before his 18th birthday in March. He had to do 40 hours of community work, hike for more than 30km and lead troops in his journey. But when he received the badge, he was ecstatic. “I have been doing this since Grade 7. I basically heard friends talk about being a scout, but when they finally went into more detail, I fell in love with it. We go hiking and camping - they told me about all these adventures. The reason I see this accolade as a big deal is because I feel that, throughout your years as a scout, everything builds up to this. “This is the ultimate test in leadership, how you can conduct yourself as a person and integrate yourself into a proper community and be a true leader.” According to him, scouting empowers youth to become leaders and provides them with practical learning. He described being a scout as noteworthy and empowering. It was now easier for him to start his own scout troop due to the experiences he acquired. Through the years, Grangadin explained he went through all the five advancement levels and received his first colours, Path Finder, in 2013. “Everything that you do builds up to Springbok, which is why it is such prestigious work; it is literally years of hard work. “It started with how to orient a map because most people know how to pull out a map, but this is what to do if you do not own a smartphone. “It also involves how to set up tents, packing a hiking pack and slowly progressing into you leading, taking control by running an entire camp.” Grangadin said being a scout and in matric was not too hard because one of the things about being a scout was being prepared. “It was easier to cope because I had set times for school and scouting - especially with finals coming around it is quite nerve-racking. I mean, 12 years of schooling all comes down to one exam and you do feel the pressure, but I trust myself.”