Despite the shortage of staff, the department expressed confidence that the situation was unlikely to hamper its efforts to battle fires. The Pretoria News has it on good authority that the department needed at least 2000 emergency personnel to be able to effectively deal with disasters such as fires and floods in the metro. Department spokesperson Johan Pieterse said he was not in a position to disclose the number of firefighters in the city. However, he said there was enough manpower to deal with emergencies. The number of firemen in the city would be able to cope with incidents of fires that might break out in unsafe buildings, he said. “We do have enough vehicles. We do have enough equipment and personnel. But if we experience that structure fires get out of hand, we have arrangements with our neighbouring municipalities to assist us as and when we need some assistance, just as we went to Joburg to assist them with the fire at Bank of Lisbon building.” The City dispatched a team of 12 emergency services personnel to assist in dousing that blaze, which claimed the lives of three firemen. Pieterse said the metro had 21 fire stations located in different regions: Pretoria Central Station was just one of the service points. He cited 18 rapid intervention vehicles that were handed to Heuweloord emergency fire station last year, saying they were enough vehicles to combat fires in the event of any disaster. In addition, 33 ambulances and a maxilance were purchased to assist in responding to incidents quicker than before. Rapid intervention vehicles have the capacity to carry 350 litres of water each, and deliver the water from an ultra-high valve pressure system. “Yes, we are geared to dealing with fires and it all depends on the structure that is on fire, how many buildings and floors are on fire; we will be able to manage it,” he said. Pieterse said that although fighting fire was not easy, the City had the capacity to do so. “People think that to extinguish a fire you can do it within 20 minutes. It is not that easy. Fires spread very rapidly. “You obviously have to take your personnel’s safety also into consideration. If it is safe we will go in and we will fight the fires to the best of our capabilities and our knowledge,” he said. He said enough water and equipment were important essentials in the firefighting exercise. “If you have two pumps you can extinguish the structure fires. It all depends on water. If we have sufficient water available we can deal with any fire,” he said. Last week Delta House in the Pretoria CBD, which houses Gauteng Department of Social Development employees, caught fire due to a faulty air-conditioner. Pieterse said fires caused by faulty air-conditioners could happen at any building. The general manager of the Public Servants Association, Ivan Fredericks, called on the employer to deploy inspectors to the building and the Department of Labour to inspect it prior to employees returning to work.