DURBAN - Fiskl, a UK-based fintech company, has announced a partnership with South African based fintech player, Ocean on 76 that will benefit SMEs in Africa. The app will assist SMEs in managing everyday tasks like invoicing, expense and time management on their mobile device. It is perfect for business owners because an accounting degree is not needed and the app offers users five free invoices per month. Ocean on 76 was a natural choice as an investment and strategic partner for Fiskl because of the fintech's knowledge and experience, “Africa is the perfect environment for Fiskl to thrive,” says co-founder and chief executive of Fiskl, Alina Lapusneanu. Lapusneanu said, "The continent is home to many rapidly-growing economies that have seen small to medium-sized enterprises flourish. And, of course, the mobile phone is one of their most critical business tools. Using the app, business owners can manage everything, and we are extremely excited about the opportunities to bring these capabilities to Africa’s small businesses together with Ocean on 76". Prins Mhlanga, founder and  chief executive of Ocena on 76 said “We focus on unlocking opportunities in the mobile services ecosystem using technology to deliver mobile services and digital content to the continent.” According to Lapusneanu, this partnership will go a long way to realise it’s goal of making modern mobile business software available to the more than 350 million small businesses worldwide. “Our go-to market strategy relies heavily on local partnerships, such as mobile operators, banks and other mobile or SME oriented partners. According to Mhlanga, Ocean on 76 knows where the consumers of tomorrow are to be found. "Strategic investments such as Fiskl’s will allow for increased fintech innovation and value will be unblocked by democratising enterprise-grade technology," said Mhlanga. Ocean on 76 Holdings and Fiskl are planning on taking the app beyond South Africa in the coming months as they unlock synergies. Fiskl supports more than 150 currencies and can do invoices in over 60 languages. Users can also create their own invoice language if the app does not support a person's language. The app is available across the African continent on Android and iOS plus there is a web version of Fiskl.   Follow the Business Report on Instagram here BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE