He will again face opposition from his three children who are adamant he is not ready to be released. Sabadia was due to walk out of the prison on June 20, but his children and their maternal grandfather, the father of murdered medical student Zahida Sabadia, objected to his release. He has spent just over 20 years of his effective 50-year jail term in jail. The lawyer acting for Sabadia’s children, Ahmed Suliman, said they would again oppose his parole application. They attended previous parole hearings and opposed his release. The board, however, decided to place Sabadia on parole from June 20. That decision had been made without consulting his family and children. This decision was suspended pending the hearing later this month by the Parole Review Board. One of Sabadia’s daughters, Anjum Moosa, told the Pretoria News she was relieved her father would remain behind bars for now. “This is good news. We are happy that the board will reconsider his release,” she said. Suliman, in his latest representation to the board, said the family asked that their father not be released. He referred to the remarks made by the judge who sentenced Sabadia more than two decades ago. Judge Eddie Stafford at the time recommended that Sabadia only be released after serving 50 years in jail. Suliman said in his representations that parole was not a right which an offender could claim, but it must be earned. “Rehabilitation is not achieved by the mere completion of a few programmes and seeing a social worker The offender must accept that the committing of a crime is wrong. “Sabadia must apologise to the family for what he did and must show remorse Until today he denies his guilt and has not accepted responsibility for his heinous crime.” Zahida went missing in February, 1996. Her body was found 22 days later tied to a tree in Ga-Rankuwa. Her husband led a team of detectives to the spot where she was killed after he made a confession. She had been strangled not far from where she and her husband were “hijacked” after buying food at a fast food outlet. It emerged that Sabadia, a well-known psychiatrist at the time, had hired three hitmen to murder his wife.