From the moment social workers report for duty at the Delta Building in the CBD, they are met by uneven and cracked floors, exposed electrical wires and overcrowding. And this was the condition the provincial EFF members were met with when they conducted an unannounced visit to the building this week. Chairperson Mandisa Mashego said their visit to the building was to merely confirm the report tabled by the City of Tshwane on October 17 regarding the dire state of the floors the departments employees were occupying. Mashego said that apart from the blatant negligent problems, their worst fear had already been realised recently when fire had broken out in the building. She said management reported that a fire had broken out last month as a result of one of the aircon vents that sparked on its own. More importantly, she stated that the report issued by the City's environment and health division stated there was a massive crisis in the building and it essentially needed to be evacuated. “As the City reported, there is a server sitting there without any supervision or the necessary management or security, and we’ve uncovered that a lot of staff are getting sick owing to lack of proper ventilation. “To make matters worse, there are open windows that are broken, one is an aircon attached to a window structure which is out in the open on the sixth floor and mould on the taps.” Mashego said their biggest concern was that the deplorable conditions the staff were subjected to would eventually have an impact on service delivery. She said it was disappointing to see how the department had no regard for its own people. Upon speaking to management at the building, Mashego said they were informed that employees would be moved to a safer building on November 15. However, staff members, according to her, were not confident the move would take place as they alleged they had been lied to for a year about moving. “They are justifiably unhappy, they are supposed to take care of the poorest but can’t do so when their own department can’t be bothered to take care of them,” she said. The matter would be monitored and taken up in the Gauteng legislature. The department had yet to comment on the issues raised.