“You are pushing us too far and you think we are cowards. We will bring Amaberete (the SAPS Tactical Response Team) to deal with the tsotsis (crooks). They don’t play those ones,” Makhura said at a public meeting in the area. He said the provincial government had planned to verify the status of the occupants to check if they qualified for RDP houses or not, but that process was stalled by court cases brought by the community. “There are people who go to court every day to prevent verification. What are they afraid of? They know there is something wrong in there,” Makhura said. The government would soon start the verification process with a view to evicting by Christmas those who didn’t qualify to occupy the houses. Those who qualified won’t be moved out of houses. Makhura condemned the illegal selling of the RDP houses and said those caught would be dealt with and forced to pay back the money. He reiterated that no one would stop the verification process. He was accompanied by MEC for Human Settlements and Co-operative Governance and Traditional Affairs Dikgang Uhuru Moila and Tshwane Human Settlements MMC Mandla Nkomo. He was there to give feedback about the government’s service delivery programmes following his interaction with residents in April. The meeting got off to a chaotic start with some illegal occupants of the houses threatening to disrupt it. However, their attempts were thwarted after Makhura hit back at their disruptive behaviour, displayed through incessant singing and interjections while he was on the podium. Others held up a placard that read “Extension 27 is our home. We are not going anywhere. We are ready to die for these houses”. But the ANC provincial chairperson said: “We are not going to be intimidated by a group of tsotsis. There’s no group that can stop me from going into any community.” He said he was informed before the meeting that the group wanted to close down the R55 road to prohibit him from entering the place. He chastised the unruly group for being disrespectful and ordered people to walk away from the meeting if they didn’t want to listen to him. Among the rowdy group there were people in ANC T-shirts. Makhura said he would deal with them within the party. He said the government was aware that there were 888 people who had illegally occupied houses in Extension 27. He also reported about progress made in the establishment of Extension 36, created for backyard dwellers. “The process of building is still on, but the installation of water is not yet done.” So far, only 600 houses had been completed and a budget of R26 million set aside to install water infrastructure, he told the residents. In total, Extension 36 will have 945 houses and a project to build more 345 houses was in the pipeline. The City of Tshwane will also soon make available 759 service stands in Extension 60 equipped with water and electricity for people to build themselves houses. Local EFF leader Peter Seolela accused Makhura of lying when he said there were people who took the government to court. “There was no such a thing as people ‘took them to court’. How can he just lie? It is a pure lie. "The department didn’t want to verify people as he is saying. They took people to court first.” Seolela said the government should not treat the list of people who qualified as a secret. “They have their list and it looks like at the end of the day they are going to work according to the list that they have, which the community knows nothing about.”