These were the chilling words of the oldest son of the so-called Springs monster in a statement handed to Gauteng High Court, Pretoria, Judge Eben Jordaan yesterday. The child was 11 when he and his four siblings were removed from their parents’ care in 2014. The man was convicted of 16 charges, including child abuse, child neglect, rape of his then 16-year-old daughter and attempted murder of the boy. The mother was convicted on eight charges, including child abuse and neglect. They will be sentenced tomorrow. The boy was hailed a hero by prosecutor Jennifer Cronje. She said if he did not run to a neighbour’s house in May 2014 to seek help, the five children would have still been held captive by their parents in their Springs home, while being subjected to daily torture. “I hate him for everything he had done to us,” the boy said. “I cannot be normal and I struggle at school, because he never allowed us to go to school. I hope people in jail will hurt him the same way he'd hurt me. I wish I can also burn him with a blowtorch. I want to hurt him so that he knows how I felt. I hate him.” The boy also did not have kind words for his mother, 40. He said she was never a mother to them and never owned up to her part in their abuse. “She lied so much (to the court). She must pay for what she had done. She never helped us when he assaulted us. She never even cried when he hurt me.” A psychologist told the court the father was a psychopath and a sadist who would never change and remains a danger to those close to him. Bronwynn Stollarz testified she had never come across anyone who had so little insight into what he had done. The court also heard that he had “found the Lord” while in prison and was running his own church and Bible group for inmates. The defence asked the court to consider that the father was also abused by his own father. He was often hit in the face and on his body with objects, and according to him, one of his father’s friends also sexually abused him. Counsel for the mother asked the court to have mercy, as she too, was a victim and suffered from battered woman’s syndrome. It was said she should receive a suspended sentence, on condition she attended compulsory psychiatric or psychology sessions. The State called for imprisonment for both parents, but a long term in jail for the man. Cronje said it was a pity that the death sentence was abolished. She asked the court not to sentence the man to a life behind bars as this meant he could apply for parole after serving 25 years - he deserved much longer. Cronje also said most of the five children wanted nothing to do with their parents and referred to them as oom (uncle) and tannie (auntie). The man earlier told his advocate that he would like to see his children one day and ask them for forgiveness. But Cronje said social workers all agreed neither parents should ever see their children again. The youngest boy was 2 when his parents were arrested. The only positive, the State said, was that he was probably too little to remember everything. The next child was 3 at the time. She is so traumatised that when the social worker consulted with her, she got on to the woman’s lap and lay there curled up. She did not want to speak about goings-on in her parental home. J was 4 when she was removed with her siblings. She too is traumatised and have anger issues. The oldest daughter said she thought torture and being locked up was part of life.