Even with the presence of armed private security guards at the South campus, students went about their business and attended classes as scheduled. Information Technology student Keletso Mabasa, 22, said he was beyond relieved to be back on campus and able to catch up on the time lost. However, he said his faculty had not yet mentioned anything about catch-up programmes. “We lost a lot of time and we need to catch up we are already under pressure and the sooner the faculty schedules catch-up tests the better so that we can be able to prepare for our final examinations,” he said. SRC president Katlego Makgobole said that although everything was back to normal, they were not happy with management. “They have not yet compiled any recovery plan and students are stressing about whether or not they will be ready to write their final exams. “Management does not communicate with us at all. “It is frustrating because we don’t know what is going on and due to that we can’t communicate with students.” Makgobole also complained about the campus having too many security guards, saying they made the place look like a military base rather than a higher learning institution. “We demand the removal of bouncers from the campus as this is not a military base but a higher learning institution,” he said. Makgobole added that they were still waiting for the report from SNG-Grant Thornton and the Independent Police Investigative Directorate investigations into the issue of the allegedly rigged SRC elections and death of third-year student Katlego Monareng in the unrest that followed. University spokesperson Willa de Ruyter said that catch-up programmes and the rescheduling of tests was faculty-based. She said the proposed final examination starting date at both campuses was December, which would be tabled for approval by the executive of the senate before the end the month. “More information on year-end exams and supplementary exams for Soshanguve students will be communicated with them once the executive has approved these dates.” Regarding lack of communication with SRC leaders, De Ruyter said open communication lines between the university and legitimate student leaders was vital to ensure the smooth running of university business. “For this reason, a proposal to appoint a transitional SRC is under consideration and will be finalised in the next 48 hours.” The reopening came six weeks after academic activities at both campuses came to a halt after students protested following the killing of Monareng, allegedly at the hands of police. The university has appointed auditing firm SNG-Grant Thornton to work together with Ipid to investigate the issues.