This will be followed by the practical examination for Information Technology (IT), to be administered to 4170 NSC candidates tomorrow. For those doing the Independent Examination Board (IEB) exams, the Life Sciences practical is tomorrow, IT practical is on Wednesday and the CAT on Thursday. IEB candidates will this week also write the advanced English, Afrikaans and maths papers. The bulk of 796542 matrics countrywide start exams in earnest next week. Local students have said they were ready, after a 12-year schooling period, with those from Loreto Convent saying they had the easiest method of preparation, which was to attack the difficult areas of work first. They spoke of their expectations and levels of stress as they sat in their physics class doing last-minute revision on Friday. Dimpho Nkwashu, 17, from Ga- Rankuwa, said: “I started in January to lay down my schedule, trying to get a good picture of the trouble areas that I have, and that comes with a lot of stress. But I have hope that I will do well. I just want to get it over and done with it it has been 12 years and I want to finish.” Nompumelelo Msiza, 18, from Soshanguve said: “Focusing on exams has been tough, I mostly concentrated on the areas that I did not really do well on so I can refine them. Obviously I feel nervous but what comforts me is that I have been preparing whatever comes I can tackle it.” Head girl Nonkanyezi Msipha, 17, from Doornpoort, said she was most excited about going out into the world. She encouraged all matrics to be upbeat. The school’s teachers gave afternoon lessons as well as classes during the holiday, and revision through the year to help the matrics. “First of all, you have been writing exams for three terms; it is the last stretch which means you are basically revising what you were doing for the past few months. So somewhere it should make an impact. Make sure you get enough rest, eat properly, exercise, be on time because if you are running late you are stressing yourself,” said principal Suzette Truter. “We tried our best to give these young ladies a proper foundation, coupled with proper values in the end we want them to be successful so their hard work is not for the school but for themselves,” she said. She was optimistic of a 100% pass rate as has been achieved over the past 25 years.