The fire claimed the life of one person. More than 340 residents were left homeless after fire gutted 223 of the 1000 shacks. The fire was the second in as many days in the area; on Saturday, at least 50 shacks were gutted by fire, leaving almost 500 people homeless at Plastic View 1. A paraffin stove had exploded in the informal settlement, which is not too far from Plastic View 2. The two informal settlements are on both sides of Woodlands Mall. The cause of the second fire was yet to be investigated, but arson was suspected, officials said. Tshwane Emergency Services spokesperson Johan Pieterse said: “We can confirm we have one deceased person who was burnt in a shack and we transported three seriously injured patients to hospital. “At this stage we are not sure what happened. We were called just after 2am. On arrival multiple shacks were on fire and obviously we tried our best to cut off the fire from spreading throughout the whole area. We did manage to get it right,” Pieterse told the Pretoria News. “The cause will be investigated. There are a lot of rumours; some say it’s arson, other say it was a grass fire. The third theory is that it was an open fire that was not extinguished.” Some of the affected residents had by yesterday afternoon started rebuilding their shacks. Other residents were sitting in the sun awaiting help. Emily Tsehla said they were sleeping at around 1am when the fire broke out. “I only managed to get away with the clothes I’m wearing. All my documents were burnt to ashes. I was actually startled to learn that the fire started in a vacant shack; it doesn’t make sense,” she said. Mary Mosiuoa said her 4-year-old son kept asking where their home was. She said she lost everything in the fire. “My son keeps asking where we will be sleeping tonight,” she said. Residents said the man who lost his life was a father-to-be. Many said they suspected foul play, but Pieterse conceded that investigating the cause would not be easy. “It is difficult to get to the cause of these fires, but we will try our best to speak to community members because they must guide us in the right direction so that we can do the investigation.” Just as he visited the area after the fire at Plastic View 1pm on Saturday, Executive Mayor Solly Msimanga was again there. “There are issues that still need to be addressed, the illegal immigrants who are here for instance “This is something that needs to be taken up with the national and provincial government to see what can be done over and above what we (the City) have already done here.” Building houses would be difficult. “The trick is that you can’t even build houses. Even if you were to build houses I mean you can’t build houses for people who are undocumented in your country which then is a bit of a difficult situation for us to deal with.” He said the provincial government needed to intervene and try to come up with a solution. Msimanga said he was overwhelmed by the spirit of ubuntu displayed by the community at large in aiding the affected families. The mayor also commended firefighters and the disaster relief department for their quick response. By yesterday afternoon the victims had received food parcels, blankets and clothes, collected and placed at the church near the informal settlement. Msimanga said the victims would also be provided with mattresses and tents.