It may well succeed in the future; after all, it took opposition parties in Nelson Mandela Bay numerous attempts to eventually unseat Athol Trollip as mayor of - ironically - another DA-led coalition government. The ANC, under Dr Kgosi Maepa, lost a no-confidence vote against Msimanga at the last sitting of council. Prior to that, a motion by the EFF had been dismissed on technical grounds. Maepa has since turned to the Gauteng High Court, Pretoria, requesting it to nullify the sitting where the ANC motion was defeated. He also wants the motion to be decided by secret vote, a request turned down by council speaker Katlego Mathebe. Prior to that sitting, Maepa had said some black DA councillors would vote with his caucus should the matter not be decided by show of hands. In an open vote, he said, DA caucus members feared victimisation and would thus stick by the mayor. So, after losing the motion, Maepa turned to the high court. Without pre-empting a court decision, a precedent set in a related matter points to that it could be referred back to Mathebe. In a matter against National Assembly Speaker Baleka Mbete last year, the Constitutional Court ordered she had the constitutional power to prescribe a secret ballot vote for a motion of no confidence in the president. However, the judgment, penned by Chief Justice Mogoeng Mogoeng, did not provide clarity on when a secret ballot or open ballot is appropriate. All it said was that the Speaker had the power to make such a decision. Justice Mogoeng said at the time that “it is her judgment call to make”. Mbete bowed to pressure and allowed a secret vote. Most ANC MPs voted along party lines and kept then president Jacob Zuma in power. Before Maepa came to the scene, the ANC conceded power to the DA, but was nonetheless intent on discrediting the Msimanga administration. It did this by preventing the new government from functioning. Council could not deal with matters without being disrupted, and Msimanga and his MMCs would be met with disruptive behaviour from people wearing ANC colours at public appearances. Maepa has used a different approach; his target is Msimanga’s throne. He wants to replace Msimanga, also a DA Gauteng premier candidate. When the GladAfrica tender scandal broke, and allegations that Dr Moeketsi Mosola irregularly awarded the engineering company the multi-billion rand contract, the ANC and Maepa blamed Msimanga and not the accounting officer Apart from accusing him of being corrupt, Maepa’s ANC has also been vocal about what it called neglect of townships by Msimanga’s government. Should Maepa unseat the mayor, this will be a double victory for the ANC; it would see Msimanga losing support for the provincial role too. The ANC should fear that Msimanga could convince voters to switch their vote to the DA during his listening tour - the strategy worked in Tshwane before the 2016 municipal polls. Half of Premier and ANC provincial leader David Makhura’s battle will be won if Maepa and company manage to unseat Msimanga. In his counter affidavit, Msimanga noted the desperation with which his ANC counterpart wanted to be mayor. As American Jodi Picoult said, the desperate usually succeed because they have nothing to lose. Mudzuli is Pretoria News assistant editor. He writes in a personal capacity.