Floyd Shivambu has denied he received any money from VBS. EFF leader Julius Malema is due to address the matter at a press conference. On Thursday the Democratic Alliance opened criminal charges against those implicated in the report titled “The Great Bank Heist” by Terry Motau, SC, which was released by the South African Reserve Bank (SARB). The report details how VBS Mutual Bank was allegedly looted by its executives in collusion with politicians. Tshifhiwa Matodzi - a former chairman of the bank, the only black-owned bank in the country - said the ANC, DA, EFF and SACP had all benefited from the bank as they asked for sponsorship from it. Matodzi was identified in the report as the kingpin of the looting of the bank, but he was not interviewed during the investigation, according to Motau. He said this was due to his lack of credibility which was demonstrated in the affidavit he produced when his estate was being sequestrated by the curator of the bank in which he denied any responsibility and blamed the executives instead. “Matodzi’s bald denial and his absurd attempt at an innocent explanation fly in the face of the weighty evidence which places him squarely in the centre of the scandal,” said Motau. In light of Matodzi’s denial, Motau felt it would be a waste of time and resources to give the former a platform to plead his “innocence”. “That he can do in another forum in due course,” Motau said. Meanwhile, the ANC’s Limpopo treasurer, Danny Msiza, who is implicated in the scandal, is demanding the retraction of the report. Msiza has given Motau until the end of business today to retract his report and apologise formally to him as he believes the report falsely insinuates wrongdoing on his part. This deadline coincides with the meeting of the ANC under Stan Mathabatha and the ANC national working committee. The ANC in Limpopo had initially planned to discuss the alleged involvement of Msiza and Vhembe Mayor Florence Radzilani, who is deputy provincial chairperson, at their meeting on Thursday but this was postponed because of the unavailability of Mathabatha. Yesterday, calls made to Mathabatha, ANC provincial secretary Soviet Lekganyane and Msiza went unanswered, including to their party’s communications team. ANC national spokesperson Pule Mabe said he was aware of the allegations that the party had asked and secured donations from the bank, which is now under curatorship and faces closure. “We are aware of these allegations and we are trying to ascertain from the office of the treasurer where they are indeed true or not,” Mabe said. “Let us wait. Once I get the documents, I will be able to say,” Mabe said. DA national spokesperson Solly Malatsi has denied that the party had ever asked for or secured “a single cent” from VBS Mutual Bank. On Friday former KPMG chartered accountant Sipho Malaba said he was considering taking legal action against Motau for the report that claimed he had received about R34m in gratuitous payments. “I’m not concerned because I have no doubt that they have not read the report” was Motau’s response at the time. “The report does not say anyone is guilty. The question is: Is there money missing from the bank? Yes. Was there money paid out? Yes. Was it paid to entities and people? Yes. Who are they and how much was paid out?” Motau said. He said it had been a difficult task: “You need to follow the funds before you could determine what questions you are supposed to put to which person,” he says. “A whole lot of them came to us and protested their innocence until they realised the depth of our evidence. Then they cracked and confessed.” He described the scandal as “so, so, so big.” Vele Investments, the majority shareholder of VBS, is allegedly being stripped of its assets by Sars, according to a report in Business Report page 11.