The Springbok wing has been one of the finds of the 2018 Test season after only making his Super Rugby debut earlier this year. He scored two wonderful tries against the All Blacks when the Boks shocked the world champions 36-34 in Wellington three weeks ago. He gets another chance to show his mettle this weekend when the Boks host the All Blacks at Loftus Versfeld in Pretoria. Dyantyi said he was excited about the challenge but didn’t want to be compared to former Bok star Habana, who also wore the No 11 on his back. “I have another opportunity to play for the Boks. It’s a chance for me to represent my country, to grow. “It’s honestly very flattering that some of you have compared me to Bryan He is a legend, he’s done it all, proved himself on the biggest stages year after year. Being compared to him is amazing, but I’m Aphiwe and I’m trying to carve my own path, make my own history. “Not everyone gets a chance to be here where I am so I want to make sure I make every moment count.” Habana, who played over 100 Tests for the Boks but has now retired from the game, said he too didn’t want to be compared with the young Lions wing. “He needs to create his own legacy, and he’s doing that, and that is exciting,” Habana told Independent Media. “I’ve had my time. Aphiwe is doing something really special. I really hope he is well looked after and goes on to break all sorts of records.” The flying wing has won over fans across South Africa with his speed, step and ability to read the game. In a matter of a few Tests he has become a Bok hero. Habana said the 24-year-old had so much going for him. “He actually has very little experience, but he has it at this level. He has this uncanny ability to make the most of every opportunity that comes his way. He has a fantastic step, he’s quick and his work-rate is second to none. He’s just got a quality, all-round game.” Dyantyi also revealed the origin of his already legendary try celebration when he pulls his fingers across his chest. “Growing up, I watched a lot of rugby with my brothers and saw Tana Umaga lead the haka and I marvelled at that there was so much passion there and I kind of took it and made it a part of me. “But, I also remember watching a movie in Grade 7 about the Kenyan Masai tribe and how a young boy takes on a lion and wins. I drew a lot of inspiration from that, too.” Dyantyi said tomorrow’s Test - to conclude the 2018 Rugby Championship - would be massive. “It’s South Africa against New Zealand it doesn’t get bigger than that. “New Zealand is a country built on rugby and we take just as much pride in our game here in South Africa. We’re so prepared for it; all we now need to do is play.” -See sport